<!DOCTYPE html>
GNU Coreutils 9.10

Next: Introduction, Up: (dir)   [Contents][Index]

GNU Coreutils ¶
This manual documents version 9.10 of the GNU core utilities, including
the standard programs for text and file manipulation.
Copyright © 1994–2026 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled “GNU
Free Documentation License”.

Short Table of Contents
1 Introduction
2 Common options
3 Output of entire files
4 Formatting file contents
5 Output of parts of files
6 Summarizing files
7 Operating on sorted files
8 Operating on fields
9 Operating on characters
10 Directory listing
11 Basic operations
12 Special file types
13 Changing file attributes
14 File space usage
15 Printing text
16 Conditions
17 Redirection
18 File name manipulation
19 Working context
20 User information
21 System context
22 SELinux context
23 Modified command invocation
24 Process control
25 Delaying
26 Numeric operations
27 File permissions
28 File timestamps
29 Date input formats
30 Version sort ordering
31 Opening the Software Toolbox
Appendix A GNU Free Documentation License
Index

Table of Contents
1 Introduction
2 Common options
2.1 Backup options
2.2 Block size
2.3 Signal specifications
2.4 chown, chgrp, chroot, id: Disambiguating user names and IDs
2.5 Sources of random data
2.6 Target directory
2.7 Trailing slashes
2.8 Traversing symlinks
2.9 Treating / specially
2.10 Special built-in utilities
2.11 Exit status
2.12 Floating point numbers
2.13 Hardware Acceleration Configuration
2.13.1 Build Configuration
2.13.2 Runtime Configuration
2.14 Standards conformance
2.15 coreutils: Multi-call program
3 Output of entire files
3.1 cat: Concatenate and write files
3.2 tac: Concatenate and write files in reverse
3.3 nl: Number lines and write files
3.4 od: Write files in octal or other formats
3.5 base32: Transform data into printable data
3.6 base64: Transform data into printable data
3.7 basenc: Transform data into printable data
4 Formatting file contents
4.1 fmt: Reformat paragraph text
4.2 pr: Paginate or columnate files for printing
4.3 fold: Wrap input lines to fit in specified width
5 Output of parts of files
5.1 head: Output the first part of files
5.2 tail: Output the last part of files
5.3 split: Split a file into pieces.
5.4 csplit: Split a file into context-determined pieces
6 Summarizing files
6.1 wc: Print newline, word, and byte counts
6.2 sum: Print checksum and block counts
6.3 cksum: Print and verify file checksums
6.3.1 cksum output modes
6.3.2 cksum general options
6.3.3 cksum common options
6.4 md5sum: Print or check MD5 digests
6.5 b2sum: Print or check BLAKE2 digests
6.6 sha1sum: Print or check SHA-1 digests
6.7 sha2 utilities: Print or check SHA-2 digests
7 Operating on sorted files
7.1 sort: Sort text files
7.2 shuf: Shuffling text
7.3 uniq: Uniquify files
7.4 comm: Compare two sorted files line by line
7.5 ptx: Produce permuted indexes
7.5.1 General options
7.5.2 Charset selection
7.5.3 Word selection and input processing
7.5.4 Output formatting
7.5.5 The GNU extensions to ptx
7.6 tsort: Topological sort
7.6.1 tsort: Background
8 Operating on fields
8.1 cut: Print selected parts of lines
8.2 paste: Merge lines of files
8.3 join: Join lines on a common field
8.3.1 General options
8.3.2 Pre-sorting
8.3.3 Working with fields
8.3.4 Controlling join’s field matching
8.3.5 Header lines
8.3.6 Union, Intersection and Difference of files
9 Operating on characters
9.1 tr: Translate, squeeze, and/or delete characters
9.1.1 Specifying arrays of characters
9.1.2 Translating
9.1.3 Squeezing repeats and deleting
9.2 expand: Convert tabs to spaces
9.3 unexpand: Convert spaces to tabs
10 Directory listing
10.1 ls: List directory contents
10.1.1 Which files are listed
10.1.2 What information is listed
10.1.3 Sorting the output
10.1.4 General output formatting
10.1.5 Formatting file timestamps
10.1.6 Formatting the file names
10.2 dir: Briefly list directory contents
10.3 vdir: Verbosely list directory contents
10.4 dircolors: Color setup for ls
11 Basic operations
11.1 cp: Copy files and directories
11.2 dd: Convert and copy a file
11.3 install: Copy files and set attributes
11.4 mv: Move (rename) files
11.5 rm: Remove files or directories
11.6 shred: Remove files more securely
12 Special file types
12.1 link: Make a hard link via the link syscall
12.2 ln: Make links between files
12.3 mkdir: Make directories
12.4 mkfifo: Make FIFOs (named pipes)
12.5 mknod: Make block or character special files
12.6 readlink: Print value of a symlink or canonical file name
12.7 rmdir: Remove empty directories
12.8 unlink: Remove files via the unlink syscall
13 Changing file attributes
13.1 chown: Change file owner and group
13.2 chgrp: Change group ownership
13.3 chmod: Change access permissions
13.4 touch: Change file timestamps
14 File space usage
14.1 df: Report file system space usage
14.2 du: Estimate file space usage
14.3 stat: Report file or file system status
14.4 sync: Synchronize cached writes to persistent storage
14.5 truncate: Shrink or extend the size of a file
15 Printing text
15.1 echo: Print a line of text
15.2 printf: Format and print data
15.3 yes: Print a string until interrupted
16 Conditions
16.1 false: Do nothing, unsuccessfully
16.2 true: Do nothing, successfully
16.3 test: Check file types and compare values
16.3.1 File type tests
16.3.2 Access permission tests
16.3.3 File characteristic tests
16.3.4 String tests
16.3.5 Numeric tests
16.3.6 Connectives for test
16.4 expr: Evaluate expressions
16.4.1 String expressions
16.4.2 Numeric expressions
16.4.3 Relations for expr
16.4.4 Examples of using expr
17 Redirection
17.1 tee: Redirect output to multiple files or processes
18 File name manipulation
18.1 basename: Strip directory and suffix from a file name
18.2 dirname: Strip last file name component
18.3 pathchk: Check file name validity and portability
18.4 mktemp: Create temporary file or directory
18.5 realpath: Print the resolved file name.
18.5.1 Realpath usage examples
19 Working context
19.1 pwd: Print working directory
19.2 stty: Print or change terminal characteristics
19.2.1 Control settings
19.2.2 Input settings
19.2.3 Output settings
19.2.4 Local settings
19.2.5 Combination settings
19.2.6 Special characters
19.2.7 Special settings
19.3 printenv: Print all or some environment variables
19.4 tty: Print file name of terminal on standard input
20 User information
20.1 id: Print user identity
20.2 logname: Print current login name
20.3 whoami: Print effective user name
20.4 groups: Print group names a user is in
20.5 users: Print login names of users currently logged in
20.6 who: Print who is currently logged in
20.7 pinky: Print information about users
21 System context
21.1 date: Print or set system date and time
21.1.1 Specifying the format of date output
21.1.1.1 Time conversion specifiers
21.1.1.2 Date conversion specifiers
21.1.1.3 Literal conversion specifiers
21.1.1.4 Padding and other flags
21.1.2 Calendars
21.1.3 Setting the time
21.1.4 Options for date
21.1.5 Examples of date
21.2 arch: Print machine hardware name
21.3 nproc: Print the number of available processors
21.4 uname: Print system information
21.5 hostname: Print or set system name
21.6 hostid: Print numeric host identifier
21.7 uptime: Print system uptime and load
22 SELinux context
22.1 chcon: Change SELinux context of file
22.2 runcon: Run a command in specified SELinux context
23 Modified command invocation
23.1 chroot: Run a command with a different root directory
23.2 env: Run a command in a modified environment
23.2.1 General options
23.2.2 -S/–split-string usage in scripts
Testing and troubleshooting
23.2.3 -S/–split-string syntax
Splitting arguments by whitespace
Escape sequences
Comments
Environment variable expansion
23.3 nice: Run a command with modified niceness
23.4 nohup: Run a command immune to hangups
23.5 stdbuf: Run a command with modified I/O stream buffering
23.6 timeout: Run a command with a time limit
24 Process control
24.1 kill: Send a signal to processes
25 Delaying
25.1 sleep: Delay for a specified time
26 Numeric operations
26.1 factor: Print prime factors
26.2 numfmt: Reformat numbers
26.2.1 General options
26.2.2 Possible units:
26.2.3 Examples of using numfmt
26.3 seq: Print numeric sequences
27 File permissions
27.1 Structure of File Mode Bits
27.2 Symbolic Modes
27.2.1 Setting Permissions
27.2.2 Copying Existing Permissions
27.2.3 Changing Special Mode Bits
27.2.4 Conditional Executability
27.2.5 Making Multiple Changes
27.2.6 The Umask and Protection
27.3 Numeric Modes
27.4 Operator Numeric Modes
27.5 Directories and the Set-User-ID and Set-Group-ID Bits
28 File timestamps
29 Date input formats
29.1 General date syntax
29.2 Calendar date items
29.3 Time of day items
29.4 Time zone items
29.5 Combined date and time of day items
29.6 Day of week items
29.7 Relative items in date strings
29.8 Pure numbers in date strings
29.9 Seconds since the Epoch
29.10 Specifying time zone rules
29.11 Authors of parse_datetime
30 Version sort ordering
30.1 Version sort overview
30.1.1 Using version sort in GNU Coreutils
30.1.2 Version sort and natural sort
30.1.3 Variations in version sort order
30.2 Version sort implementation
30.2.1 Version-sort ordering rules
30.2.2 Version sort is not the same as numeric sort
30.2.3 Version sort punctuation
30.2.4 Punctuation vs letters
30.2.5 The tilde ‘~’
30.2.6 Version sort ignores locale
30.3 Differences from Debian version sort
30.3.1 Hyphen-minus ‘-’ and colon ‘:’
30.3.2 Special priority in GNU Coreutils version sort
30.3.3 Special handling of file extensions
30.3.4 Comparing two strings using Debian’s algorithm
30.4 Advanced Topics
30.4.1 Reporting version sort bugs
30.4.2 Other version/natural sort implementations
30.4.3 Related source code
31 Opening the Software Toolbox
Toolbox Introduction
I/O Redirection
The who Command
The cut Command
The sort Command
The uniq Command
Putting the Tools Together
Appendix A GNU Free Documentation License
Index

Next: Common options, Previous: GNU Coreutils, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

1 Introduction ¶
This manual is a work in progress: many sections make no attempt to
explain basic concepts in a way suitable for novices. Thus, if you are
interested, please get involved in improving this manual. The entire GNU
community will benefit.
The GNU utilities documented here are mostly compatible with the POSIX
standard.
Please report bugs to bug-coreutils@gnu.org. Include the version number,
machine architecture, input files, and any other information needed to
reproduce the bug: your input, what you expected, what you got, and why
it is wrong.
If you have a problem with sort or date, try using the –debug option, as
it can often help find and fix problems without having to wait for an
answer to a bug report. If the debug output does not suffice to fix the
problem on your own, please compress and attach it to the rest of your
bug report.
Although diffs are welcome, please include a description of the problem
as well, since this is sometimes difficult to infer. See Bugs in Using
and Porting GNU CC.
This manual was originally derived from the Unix man pages in the
distributions, which were written by David MacKenzie and updated by Jim
Meyering. What you are reading now is the authoritative documentation
for these utilities; the man pages are no longer being maintained. The
original fmt man page was written by Ross Paterson. François Pinard did
the initial conversion to Texinfo format. Karl Berry did the indexing,
some reorganization, and editing of the results. Brian Youmans of the
Free Software Foundation office staff combined the manuals for
textutils, fileutils, and sh-utils to produce the present omnibus
manual. Richard Stallman contributed his usual invaluable insights to
the overall process.
Next: Output of entire files, Previous: Introduction, Up: GNU Coreutils
  [Contents][Index]

2 Common options ¶

Certain options are available in all of these programs. Rather than
writing identical descriptions for each of the programs, they are
described here. (In fact, every GNU program accepts (or should accept)
these options.)
Normally options and operands can appear in any order, and programs act
as if all the options appear before any operands. For example, ‘sort -r
passwd -t :’ acts like ‘sort -r -t : passwd’, since ‘:’ is an
option-argument of -t. However, if the POSIXLY_CORRECT environment
variable is set, options must appear before operands, unless otherwise
specified for a particular command.
A few programs can usefully have trailing operands with leading ‘-’.
With such a program, options must precede operands even if
POSIXLY_CORRECT is not set, and this fact is noted in the program
description. For example, the env command’s options must appear before
its operands, since in some cases the operands specify a command that
itself contains options.
Most programs that accept long options recognize unambiguous
abbreviations of those options. For example, ‘rmdir
–ignore-fail-on-non-empty’ can be invoked as ‘rmdir –ignore-fail’ or
even ‘rmdir –i’. Ambiguous options, such as ‘ls –h’, are identified as
such.
Some of these programs recognize the –help and –version options only
when one of them is the sole command line argument. For these programs,
abbreviations of the long options are not always recognized.
‘–help’ ¶
Print a usage message listing all available options, then exit
successfully. Help output may be marked up with terminal codes for
formatting or hyperlinks, which can be disabled by unsetting the TERM
environment variable, or setting it to the value ‘dumb’.
‘–version’ ¶
Print the version number, then exit successfully.
‘–’ ¶
Delimit the option list. Later arguments, if any, are treated as
operands even if they begin with ‘-’. For example, ‘sort – -r’ reads
from the file named -r.
A single ‘-’ operand is not really an option, though it looks like one.
It stands for a file operand, and some tools treat it as standard input,
or as standard output if that is clear from the context. For example,
‘sort -’ reads from standard input, and is equivalent to plain ‘sort’.
Unless otherwise specified, a ‘-’ can appear as any operand that
requires a file name.
Backup options
Block size
Signal specifications
chown, chgrp, chroot, id: Disambiguating user names and IDs
Sources of random data
Target directory
Trailing slashes
Traversing symlinks
Treating / specially
Special built-in utilities
Exit status
Floating point numbers
Hardware Acceleration Configuration
Standards conformance
coreutils: Multi-call program
Next: Block size, Up: Common options   [Contents][Index]

2.1 Backup options ¶

Some GNU programs (at least cp, install, ln, and mv) optionally make
backups of files before writing new versions. These options control the
details of these backups. The options are also briefly mentioned in the
descriptions of the particular programs.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–backup[=method]’
Make a backup of each file that would otherwise be overwritten or
removed. Without this option, the original versions are destroyed. Use
method to determine the type of backups to make. When this option is
used but method is not specified, then the value of the VERSION_CONTROL
environment variable is used. And if VERSION_CONTROL is not set, the
default backup type is ‘existing’.
Using -b is equivalent to using –backup=existing; -b does not accept any
argument.
This option corresponds to the Emacs variable ‘version-control’; the
values for method are the same as those used in Emacs. This option also
accepts more descriptive names. The valid methods are (unique
abbreviations are accepted):
‘none’ ¶
‘off’
Never make backups.
‘numbered’ ¶
‘t’
Always make numbered backups.
‘existing’ ¶
‘nil’
Make numbered backups of files that already have them, simple backups of
the others.
‘simple’ ¶
‘never’
Always make simple backups. Do not confuse ‘never’ with ‘none’.
‘-S suffix’ ¶
‘–suffix=suffix’
Append suffix to each backup file made with -b. If this option is not
specified, the value of the SIMPLE_BACKUP_SUFFIX environment variable is
used. And if SIMPLE_BACKUP_SUFFIX is not set, the default is ‘~’, just
as in Emacs.
Next: Signal specifications, Previous: Backup options, Up: Common
options   [Contents][Index]

2.2 Block size ¶

Some GNU programs (at least df, du, and ls) display sizes in “blocks”.
You can adjust the block size and method of display to make sizes easier
to read. The block size used for display is independent of any file
system block size. Fractional block counts are rounded up to the nearest
integer.

The default block size is chosen by examining the following environment
variables in turn; the first one that is set determines the block size.
DF_BLOCK_SIZE
This specifies the default block size for the df command. Similarly,
DU_BLOCK_SIZE specifies the default for du and LS_BLOCK_SIZE for ls.
BLOCK_SIZE
This specifies the default block size for all three commands, if the
above command-specific environment variables are not set.
BLOCKSIZE
This specifies the default block size for all values that are normally
printed as blocks, if neither BLOCK_SIZE nor the above command-specific
environment variables are set. Unlike the other environment variables,
BLOCKSIZE does not affect values that are normally printed as byte
counts, e.g., the file sizes contained in ls -l output.
POSIXLY_CORRECT
If neither command_BLOCK_SIZE, nor BLOCK_SIZE, nor BLOCKSIZE is set, but
this variable is set, the block size defaults to 512.
If none of the above environment variables are set, the block size
currently defaults to 1024 bytes in most contexts, but this number may
change in the future. For ls file sizes, the block size defaults to 1
byte.

A block size specification can be a positive integer specifying the
number of bytes per block, or it can be human-readable or si to select a
human-readable format. Integers may be followed by suffixes that are
upward compatible with the SI prefixes for decimal multiples and with
the ISO/IEC 80000-13 (formerly IEC 60027-2) prefixes for binary
multiples.
With human-readable formats, output sizes are followed by a size letter
such as ‘M’ for megabytes. BLOCK_SIZE=human-readable uses powers of
1024; ‘M’ stands for 1,048,576 bytes. BLOCK_SIZE=si is similar, but uses
powers of 1000 and appends ‘B’; ‘MB’ stands for 1,000,000 bytes.
A block size specification preceded by ‘‘’ causes output sizes to be
displayed with thousands separators. The LC_NUMERIC locale specifies the
thousands separator and grouping. For example, in an American English
locale, ‘–block-size="’1kB"’ would cause a size of 1234000 bytes to be
displayed as ‘1,234’. In the default C locale, there is no thousands
separator so a leading ‘’’ has no effect.
An integer block size can be followed by a suffix to specify a multiple
of that size. A bare size letter, or one followed by ‘iB’, specifies a
multiple using powers of 1024. A size letter followed by ‘B’ specifies
powers of 1000 instead. For example, ‘1M’ and ‘1MiB’ are equivalent to
‘1048576’, whereas ‘1MB’ is equivalent to ‘1000000’.
A plain suffix without a preceding integer acts as if ‘1’ were
prepended, except that it causes a size indication to be appended to the
output. For example, ‘–block-size="kB"’ displays 3000 as ‘3kB’.
The following suffixes are defined. Large sizes like 1Q may be rejected
by your computer due to limitations of its arithmetic.
‘kB’ ¶
kilobyte: 10^3 = 1000.
‘k’ ¶
‘K’
‘KiB’
kibibyte: 2^{10} = 1024. ‘K’ is special: the SI prefix is ‘k’ and the
ISO/IEC 80000-13 prefix is ‘Ki’, but tradition and POSIX use ‘k’ to mean
‘KiB’.
‘MB’ ¶
megabyte: 10^6 = 1,000,000.
‘M’ ¶
‘MiB’
mebibyte: 2^{20} = 1,048,576.
‘GB’ ¶
gigabyte: 10^9 = 1,000,000,000.
‘G’ ¶
‘GiB’
gibibyte: 2^{30} = 1,073,741,824.
‘TB’ ¶
terabyte: 10^{12} = 1,000,000,000,000.
‘T’ ¶
‘TiB’
tebibyte: 2^{40} = 1,099,511,627,776.
‘PB’ ¶
petabyte: 10^{15} = 1,000,000,000,000,000.
‘P’ ¶
‘PiB’
pebibyte: 2^{50} = 1,125,899,906,842,624.
‘EB’ ¶
exabyte: 10^{18} = 1,000,000,000,000,000,000.
‘E’ ¶
‘EiB’
exbibyte: 2^{60} = 1,152,921,504,606,846,976.
‘ZB’ ¶
zettabyte: 10^{21} = 1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000
‘Z’
‘ZiB’
zebibyte: 2^{70} = 1,180,591,620,717,411,303,424.
‘YB’ ¶
yottabyte: 10^{24} = 1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000.
‘Y’
‘YiB’
yobibyte: 2^{80} = 1,208,925,819,614,629,174,706,176.
‘RB’ ¶
ronnabyte: 10^{27} = 1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000.
‘R’
‘RiB’
robibyte: 2^{90} = 1,237,940,039,285,380,274,899,124,224.
‘QB’ ¶
quettabyte: 10^{30} = 1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000.
‘Q’
‘QiB’
quebibyte: 2^{100} = 1,267,650,600,228,229,401,496,703,205,376.

Block size defaults can be overridden by an explicit –block-size=size
option. The -k option is equivalent to –block-size=1K, which is the
default unless the POSIXLY_CORRECT environment variable is set. The -h
or –human-readable option is equivalent to –block-size=human-readable.
The –si option is equivalent to –block-size=si. Note for ls the -k
option does not control the display of the apparent file sizes, whereas
the –block-size option does.
Next: chown, chgrp, chroot, id: Disambiguating user names and IDs,
Previous: Block size, Up: Common options   [Contents][Index]

2.3 Signal specifications ¶

A signal may be a signal name like ‘HUP’, or a signal number like ‘1’,
or an exit status of a process terminated by the signal. A signal name
can be given in canonical form or prefixed by ‘SIG’. The case of the
letters is ignored.
The signal ‘0’ pseudo signal is synonymous with the name ‘EXIT’ with the
GNU kill command, and bash at least, as trap foo 0 and trap foo EXIT are
equivalent.
The following signal names and numbers are supported on all POSIX
compliant systems:
‘HUP’
1.  Hangup.

‘INT’
2.  Terminal interrupt.

‘QUIT’
3.  Terminal quit.

‘ABRT’
6.  Process abort.

‘KILL’
9.  Kill (cannot be caught or ignored).

‘ALRM’
14. Alarm Clock.

‘TERM’
15. Termination.

Other supported signal names have system-dependent corresponding
numbers. All systems conforming to POSIX 1003.1-2001 also support the
following signals:
‘BUS’
Access to an undefined portion of a memory object.
‘CHLD’
Child process terminated, stopped, or continued.
‘CONT’
Continue executing, if stopped.
‘FPE’
Erroneous arithmetic operation.
‘ILL’
Illegal Instruction.
‘PIPE’
Write on a pipe with no one to read it.
‘SEGV’
Invalid memory reference.
‘STOP’
Stop executing (cannot be caught or ignored).
‘TSTP’
Terminal stop.
‘TTIN’
Background process attempting read.
‘TTOU’
Background process attempting write.
‘URG’
High bandwidth data is available at a socket.
‘USR1’
User-defined signal 1.
‘USR2’
User-defined signal 2.
POSIX 1003.1-2001 systems that support the XSI extension also support
the following signals:
‘POLL’
Pollable event.
‘PROF’
Profiling timer expired.
‘SYS’
Bad system call.
‘TRAP’
Trace/breakpoint trap.
‘VTALRM’
Virtual timer expired.
‘XCPU’
CPU time limit exceeded.
‘XFSZ’
File size limit exceeded.
POSIX 1003.1-2001 systems that support the XRT extension also support at
least eight real-time signals called ‘RTMIN’, ‘RTMIN+1’, …, ‘RTMAX-1’,
‘RTMAX’.
All systems conforming to POSIX 1003.1-2024 also support the following
signals:
‘WINCH’
Terminal window size changed.
Next: Sources of random data, Previous: Signal specifications, Up:
Common options   [Contents][Index]

2.4 chown, chgrp, chroot, id: Disambiguating user names and IDs ¶

Since the user and group arguments to these commands may be specified as
names or numeric IDs, there is an apparent ambiguity. What if a user or
group name is a string of digits? Should the command interpret it as a
user name or as an ID? (Using a number as a user name is common in some
environments.) POSIX requires that these commands first attempt to
resolve the specified string as a name, and only once that fails, then
try to interpret it as an ID. This is troublesome when you want to
specify a numeric ID, say 42, and it must work even in a pathological
situation where ‘42’ is a user name that maps to some other user ID, say
1000. Simply invoking chown 42 F, will set Fs owner ID to 1000 – not
what you intended.
GNU chown, chgrp, chroot, and id provide a way to work around this, that
at the same time may result in a significant performance improvement by
eliminating a database look-up. Simply precede each numeric user ID
and/or group ID with a ‘+’, in order to force its interpretation as an
integer:

The name look-up process is skipped for each ‘+’-prefixed string,
because a string containing ‘+’ is never a valid user or group name.
This syntax is accepted on most common Unix systems, but not on Solaris
10.
Next: Target directory, Previous: chown, chgrp, chroot, id:
Disambiguating user names and IDs, Up: Common options  
[Contents][Index]

2.5 Sources of random data ¶

The shuf, shred, and sort commands sometimes need random data to do
their work. For example, ‘sort -R’ must choose a hash function at
random, and it needs random data to make this selection.
By default these commands use an internal pseudo-random generator
initialized by a small amount of entropy, but can be directed to use an
external source with the –random-source=file option. An error is
reported if file does not contain enough bytes.
For example, the device file /dev/urandom could be used as the source of
random data. Typically, this device gathers environmental noise from
device drivers and other sources into an entropy pool, and uses the pool
to generate random bits. If the pool is short of data, the device reuses
the internal pool to produce more bits, using a cryptographically secure
pseudo-random number generator. But be aware that this device is not
designed for bulk random data generation and is relatively slow.
/dev/urandom suffices for most practical uses, but applications
requiring high-value or long-term protection of private data may require
an alternate data source like /dev/random or /dev/arandom. The set of
available sources depends on your operating system.
To reproduce the results of an earlier invocation of a command, you can
save some random data into a file and then use that file as the random
source in earlier and later invocations of the command. Rather than
depending on a file, one can generate a reproducible arbitrary amount of
pseudo-random data given a seed value, using for example:

Next: Trailing slashes, Previous: Sources of random data, Up: Common
options   [Contents][Index]

2.6 Target directory ¶

The cp, install, ln, and mv commands normally treat the last operand
specially when it is a directory or a symbolic link to a directory. For
example, ‘cp source dest’ is equivalent to ‘cp source dest/source’ if
dest is a directory. Sometimes this behavior is not exactly what is
wanted, so these commands support the following options to allow more
fine-grained control:
‘-T’ ¶
‘–no-target-directory’
Do not treat the last operand specially when it is a directory or a
symbolic link to a directory. This can help avoid race conditions in
programs that operate in a shared area. For example, when the command
‘mv /tmp/source /tmp/dest’ succeeds, there is no guarantee that
/tmp/source was renamed to /tmp/dest: it could have been renamed to
/tmp/dest/source instead, if some other process created /tmp/dest as a
directory. However, if mv -T /tmp/source /tmp/dest succeeds, there is no
question that /tmp/source was renamed to /tmp/dest.
In the opposite situation, where you want the last operand to be treated
as a directory and want a diagnostic otherwise, you can use the
–target-directory (-t) option.
‘-t directory’ ¶
‘–target-directory=directory’
Use directory as the directory component of each destination file name.
The interface for most programs is that after processing options and a
finite (possibly zero) number of fixed-position arguments, the remaining
argument list is either expected to be empty, or is a list of items
(usually files) that will all be handled identically. The xargs program
is designed to work well with this convention.
The commands in the mv-family are unusual in that they take a variable
number of arguments with a special case at the end (namely, the target
directory). This makes it nontrivial to perform some operations, e.g.,
“move all files from here to ../d/”, because mv * ../d/ might exhaust
the argument space, and ls | xargs … doesn’t have a clean way to specify
an extra final argument for each invocation of the subject command. (It
can be done by going through a shell command, but that requires more
human labor and brain power than it should.)
The –target-directory (-t) option allows the cp, install, ln, and mv
programs to be used conveniently with xargs. For example, you can move
the files from the current directory to a sibling directory, d like
this:

However, this doesn’t move files whose names begin with ‘.’. If you use
the GNU find program, you can move those files too, with this command:

But both of the above approaches fail if there are no files in the
current directory, or if any file has a name containing a blank or some
other special characters. The following example removes those
limitations and requires both GNU find and GNU xargs:

The –target-directory (-t) and –no-target-directory (-T) options cannot
be combined.
Next: Traversing symlinks, Previous: Target directory, Up: Common
options   [Contents][Index]

2.7 Trailing slashes ¶

Some GNU programs (at least cp and mv) allow you to remove any trailing
slashes from each source argument before operating on it. The
–strip-trailing-slashes option enables this behavior.
This is useful when a source argument may have a trailing slash and
specify a symbolic link to a directory. This scenario is in fact rather
common because some shells can automatically append a trailing slash
when performing file name completion on such symbolic links. Without
this option, mv, for example, (via the system’s rename function) must
interpret a trailing slash as a request to dereference the symbolic link
and so must rename the indirectly referenced directory and not the
symbolic link. Although it may seem surprising that such behavior be the
default, it is required by POSIX and is consistent with other parts of
that standard.
Next: Treating / specially, Previous: Trailing slashes, Up: Common
options   [Contents][Index]

2.8 Traversing symlinks ¶

The following options modify how chmod, chown, and chgrp traverse a
hierarchy when the –recursive (-R) option is also specified. If more
than one of the following options is specified, only the final one takes
effect. These options specify whether processing a symbolic link to a
directory entails operating on just the symbolic link or on all files in
the hierarchy rooted at that directory.
These options are independent of –dereference and –no-dereference (-h),
which control whether to modify a symlink or its referent.
‘-H’ ¶
If –recursive (-R) is specified and a command line argument is a
symbolic link to a directory, traverse it.
‘-L’ ¶
In a recursive traversal, traverse every symbolic link to a directory
that is encountered.
‘-P’ ¶
Do not traverse any symbolic links.
This is the default if none of -H, -L, or -P is specified.
Next: Special built-in utilities, Previous: Traversing symlinks, Up:
Common options   [Contents][Index]

2.9 Treating / specially ¶
Certain commands can operate destructively on entire hierarchies. For
example, if a user with appropriate privileges mistakenly runs ‘rm -rf /
tmp/junk’, that may remove all files on the entire system. Since there
are so few legitimate uses for such a command, GNU rm normally declines
to operate on any directory that resolves to /. If you really want to
try to remove all the files on your system, you can use the
–no-preserve-root option, but the default behavior, specified by the
–preserve-root option, is safer for most purposes.
The commands chgrp, chmod and chown can also operate destructively on
entire hierarchies, so they too support these options. Although, unlike
rm, they don’t actually unlink files, these commands are arguably more
dangerous when operating recursively on /, since they often work much
more quickly, and hence damage more files before an alert user can
interrupt them. Tradition and POSIX require these commands to operate
recursively on /, so they default to –no-preserve-root, but using the
–preserve-root option makes them safer for most purposes. For
convenience you can specify –preserve-root in an alias or in a shell
function.
The –preserve-root option also ensures that chgrp and chown do not
modify / even when dereferencing a symlink pointing to /.
Next: Exit status, Previous: Treating / specially, Up: Common options  
[Contents][Index]

2.10 Special built-in utilities ¶
Some programs like nice can invoke other programs; for example, the
command ‘nice cat file’ invokes the program cat by executing the command
‘cat file’. However, special built-in utilities like exit cannot be
invoked this way. For example, the command ‘nice exit’ does not have a
well-defined behavior: it may generate an error message instead of
exiting.
Here is a list of the special built-in utilities that are standardized
by POSIX 1003.1-2004.
. : break continue eval exec exit export readonly return set shift times
trap unset
For example, because ‘.’, ‘:’, and ‘exec’ are special, the commands
‘nice . foo.sh’, ‘nice :’, and ‘nice exec pwd’ do not work as you might
expect.
Many shells extend this list. For example, Bash has several extra
special built-in utilities like history, and suspend, and with Bash the
command ‘nice suspend’ generates an error message instead of suspending.
Next: Floating point numbers, Previous: Special built-in utilities, Up:
Common options   [Contents][Index]

2.11 Exit status ¶
Nearly every command invocation yields an integral exit status that can
be used to change how other commands work. For the vast majority of
commands, an exit status of zero indicates success. Failure is indicated
by a nonzero value – typically ‘1’, though it may differ on unusual
platforms as POSIX requires only that it be nonzero.
However, some of the programs documented here do produce other exit
status values and a few associate different meanings with the values ‘0’
and ‘1’. Here are the exceptions: chroot, env, expr, ls, nice, nohup,
numfmt, printenv, runcon, sort, stdbuf, test, timeout, tty.
Next: Hardware Acceleration Configuration, Previous: Exit status, Up:
Common options   [Contents][Index]

2.12 Floating point numbers ¶

Commands that accept or produce floating point numbers employ the
floating point representation of the underlying system, and suffer from
rounding error, overflow, and similar floating-point issues. Almost all
modern systems use IEEE-754 floating point, and it is typically portable
to assume IEEE-754 behavior these days. IEEE-754 has positive and
negative infinity, distinguishes positive from negative zero, and uses
special values called NaNs to represent invalid computations such as
dividing zero by itself. For more information, please see David
Goldberg’s paper What Every Computer Scientist Should Know About
Floating-Point Arithmetic.
Commands that accept floating point numbers as options, operands or
input use the standard C functions strtod and strtold to convert from
text to floating point numbers. These floating point numbers therefore
can use scientific notation like 1.0e-34 and -10e100. Commands that
parse floating point also understand case-insensitive inf, infinity, and
NaN, although whether such values are useful depends on the command in
question. Modern C implementations also accept hexadecimal floating
point numbers such as -0x.ep-3, which stands for −14/16 times 2^{-3},
which equals −0.109375. See Parsing of Floats in The GNU C Library
Reference Manual.
Normally the LC_NUMERIC locale determines the decimal-point character.
However, some commands’ descriptions specify that they accept numbers in
either the current or the C locale; for example, they treat ‘3.14’ like
‘3,14’ if the current locale uses comma as a decimal point.
Next: Standards conformance, Previous: Floating point numbers, Up:
Common options   [Contents][Index]

2.13 Hardware Acceleration Configuration ¶

The cksum and wc utilities can use non-generic hardware acceleration
when available, which can significantly speed up processing. This
acceleration can be implemented internally within the coreutils
themselves, delegated to libraries like OpenSSL, or handled by the Linux
kernel.
Build Configuration
Runtime Configuration
2.13.1 Build Configuration ¶
By default, the build enables hardware acceleration detection for all
supported features. This applies to both the accelerated code used
internally within coreutils and the accelerated code used in external
libraries.
The detection performed internally within coreutils can be overridden at
build time using various configure variables, which currently include:
‘gl_cv_crc_pclmul’
‘utils_cv_avx2_intrinsic_exists’
‘utils_cv_avx2_pclmul_intrinsic_exists’
‘utils_cv_avx512_pclmul_intrinsic_exists’
‘utils_cv_pclmul_intrinsic_exists’
‘utils_cv_vmull_intrinsic_exists’
External library detection is automatic for OpenSSL, so you must use the
‘–with-openssl=no’ configure option to disable this if desired.
Conversely, the Linux kernel cryptographic API is not used automatically
and must be explicitly enabled with the ‘–with-linux-crypto’ configure
option.

2.13.2 Runtime Configuration ¶
The usual method for runtime configuration of hardware detection is
through environment variables, since you typically want to configure
hardware interactions quite broadly. Note that these environment
variables are not specific to coreutils, but coreutils will honor them
when set.
For example, the following environment settings would disable hardware
acceleration both within coreutils and in libcrypto (if used) on x86_64,
ARM, and AArch64 platforms:

The –debug option is available on all utilities supporting hardware
acceleration and will report the current acceleration mode in use. For
example:

Next: coreutils: Multi-call program, Previous: Hardware Acceleration
Configuration, Up: Common options   [Contents][Index]

2.14 Standards conformance ¶
In a few cases, the GNU utilities’ default behavior is incompatible with
the POSIX standard. To suppress these incompatibilities, define the
POSIXLY_CORRECT environment variable. Unless you are checking for POSIX
conformance, you probably do not need to define POSIXLY_CORRECT.
Newer versions of POSIX are occasionally incompatible with older
versions. For example, older versions of POSIX required the command
‘sort +1’ to sort based on the second and succeeding fields in each
input line, but in POSIX 1003.1-2001 the same command is required to
sort the file named +1, and you must instead use the command ‘sort -k 2’
to get the field-based sort. To complicate things further, POSIX
1003.1-2008 allows an implementation to have either the old or the new
behavior.
The GNU utilities normally conform to the version of POSIX that is
standard for your system. To cause them to conform to a different
version of POSIX, define the _POSIX2_VERSION environment variable to a
value of the form yyyymm specifying the year and month the standard was
adopted. Three values are currently supported for _POSIX2_VERSION:
‘199209’ stands for POSIX 1003.2-1992, ‘200112’ stands for POSIX
1003.1-2001, and ‘200809’ stands for POSIX 1003.1-2008. For example, if
you have a POSIX 1003.1-2001 system but are running software containing
traditional usage like ‘sort +1’ or ‘tail +10’, you can work around the
compatibility problems by setting ‘_POSIX2_VERSION=200809’ in your
environment.
Previous: Standards conformance, Up: Common options   [Contents][Index]

2.15 coreutils: Multi-call program ¶

The coreutils command invokes an individual utility, either implicitly
selected by the last component of the name used to invoke coreutils, or
explicitly with the –coreutils-prog option. Synopsis:

The coreutils command is not installed by default, so portable scripts
should not rely on its existence.
Next: Formatting file contents, Previous: Common options, Up: GNU
Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

3 Output of entire files ¶

These commands read and write entire files, possibly transforming them
in some way.
cat: Concatenate and write files
tac: Concatenate and write files in reverse
nl: Number lines and write files
od: Write files in octal or other formats
base32: Transform data into printable data
base64: Transform data into printable data
basenc: Transform data into printable data
Next: tac: Concatenate and write files in reverse, Up: Output of entire
files   [Contents][Index]

3.1 cat: Concatenate and write files ¶

cat copies each file (‘-’ means standard input), or standard input if
none are given, to standard output. Synopsis:

The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-A’ ¶
‘–show-all’
Equivalent to -vET.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–number-nonblank’
Number all nonempty output lines, starting with 1.
‘-e’ ¶
Equivalent to -vE.
‘-E’ ¶
‘–show-ends’
Display a ‘$</samp>&rsquo; after the end of each line.
The <code class="code">\r\n</code> combination is shown as &lsquo;<samp class="samp">^M$’.
‘-n’ ¶
‘–number’
Number all output lines, starting with 1. This option is ignored if -b
is in effect.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–squeeze-blank’
Suppress repeated adjacent blank lines; output just one empty line
instead of several.
‘-t’ ¶
Equivalent to -vT.
‘-T’ ¶
‘–show-tabs’
Display TAB characters as ‘^I’.
‘-u’ ¶
Ignored; for POSIX compatibility.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–show-nonprinting’
Display control characters except for LFD and TAB using ‘^’ notation and
precede characters that have the high bit set with ‘M-’.
On systems like MS-DOS that distinguish between text and binary files,
cat normally reads and writes in binary mode. However, cat reads in text
mode if one of the options -bensAE is used or if cat is reading from
standard input and standard input is a terminal. Similarly, cat writes
in text mode if one of the options -bensAE is used or if standard output
is a terminal.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Examples:

Next: nl: Number lines and write files, Previous: cat: Concatenate and
write files, Up: Output of entire files   [Contents][Index]

3.2 tac: Concatenate and write files in reverse ¶

tac copies each file (‘-’ means standard input), or standard input if
none are given, to standard output, reversing the records (lines by
default) in each separately. Synopsis:

Records are separated by instances of a string (newline by default). By
default, this separator string is attached to the end of the record that
it follows in the file.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–before’
The separator is attached to the beginning of the record that it
precedes in the file.
‘-r’ ¶
‘–regex’
Treat the separator string as a regular expression.
‘-s separator’ ¶
‘–separator=separator’
Use separator as the record separator, instead of newline. Note an empty
separator is treated as a zero byte. I.e., input and output items are
delimited with ASCII NUL.
On systems like MS-DOS that distinguish between text and binary files,
tac reads and writes in binary mode.
Non-seekable input is buffered to $TMPDIR, defaulting to /tmp, if the
TMPDIR environment variable is not set or the location is not available.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Example:

Next: od: Write files in octal or other formats, Previous: tac:
Concatenate and write files in reverse, Up: Output of entire files  
[Contents][Index]

3.3 nl: Number lines and write files ¶

nl writes each file (‘-’ means standard input), or standard input if
none are given, to standard output, with line numbers added to some or
all of the lines. Synopsis:

nl decomposes its input into (logical) page sections; by default, the
line number is reset to 1 at each logical page section. nl treats all of
the input files as a single document; it does not reset line numbers or
logical pages between files.
A logical page consists of three sections: header, body, and footer. Any
of the sections can be empty. Each can be numbered in a different style
from the others.
The beginnings of the sections of logical pages are indicated in the
input file by a line containing exactly one of these delimiter strings:
‘:::’
start of header;
‘::’
start of body;
‘:’
start of footer.
The characters from which these strings are made can be changed from
‘</samp>’ and ‘:’ via options (see below), but the pattern of each
string cannot be changed.
A section delimiter is replaced by an empty line on output. Any text
that comes before the first section delimiter string in the input file
is considered to be part of a body section, so nl treats a file that
contains no section delimiters as a single body section.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-b style’ ¶
‘–body-numbering=style’
Select the numbering style for lines in the body section of each logical
page. When a line is not numbered, the current line number is not
incremented, but the line number separator character is still prepended
to the line. The styles are:
‘a’
number all lines,
‘t’
number only nonempty lines (default for body),
‘n’
do not number lines (default for header and footer),
‘pbre’
number only lines that contain a match for the basic regular expression
bre. See Regular Expressions in The GNU Grep Manual.
‘-d cd’ ¶
‘–section-delimiter=cd’
Set the section delimiter characters to cd; default is ‘:’. If only c is
given, the second remains ‘:’. As a GNU extension more than two
characters can be specified, and also if cd is empty (-d ’’), then
section matching is disabled. (Remember to protect ‘</samp>’ or other
metacharacters from shell expansion with quotes or extra backslashes.)
‘-f style’ ¶
‘–footer-numbering=style’
Analogous to –body-numbering.
‘-h style’ ¶
‘–header-numbering=style’
Analogous to –body-numbering.
‘-i number’ ¶
‘–line-increment=number’
Increment line numbers by number (default 1). number can be negative to
decrement.
‘-l number’ ¶
‘–join-blank-lines=number’
Consider number (default 1) consecutive empty lines to be one logical
line for numbering, and only number the last one. Where fewer than
number consecutive empty lines occur, do not number them. An empty line
is one that contains no characters, not even spaces or tabs.
‘-n format’ ¶
‘–number-format=format’
Select the line numbering format (default is rn):
‘ln’ ¶
left justified, no leading zeros;
‘rn’ ¶
right justified, no leading zeros;
‘rz’ ¶
right justified, leading zeros.
‘-p’ ¶
‘–no-renumber’
Do not reset the line number at the start of a logical page.
‘-s string’ ¶
‘–number-separator=string’
Separate the line number from the text line in the output with string
(default is the TAB character).
‘-v number’ ¶
‘–starting-line-number=number’
Set the initial line number on each logical page to number (default 1).
The starting number can be negative.
‘-w number’ ¶
‘–number-width=number’
Use number characters for line numbers (default 6).
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: base32: Transform data into printable data, Previous: nl: Number
lines and write files, Up: Output of entire files   [Contents][Index]

3.4 od: Write files in octal or other formats ¶

od writes an unambiguous representation of each file (‘-’ means standard
input), or standard input if none are given. Synopses:

Each line of output consists of the offset in the input, followed by
groups of data from the file. By default, od prints the offset in octal,
and each group of file data is a C short int’s worth of input printed as
a single octal number.
If offset is given, it specifies how many input bytes to skip before
formatting and writing. By default, it is interpreted as an octal
number, but the optional trailing decimal point causes it to be
interpreted as decimal. If no decimal is specified and the offset begins
with ‘0x’ or ‘0X’ it is interpreted as a hexadecimal number. If there is
a trailing ‘b’, the number of bytes skipped will be offset multiplied by
512.
If a command is of both the first and second forms, the second form is
assumed if the last operand begins with ‘+’ or (if there are two
operands) a digit. For example, in ‘od foo 10’ and ‘od +10’ the ‘10’ is
an offset, whereas in ‘od 10’ the ‘10’ is a file name.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-A radix’ ¶
‘–address-radix=radix’
Select the base in which file offsets are printed. radix can be one of
the following:
‘d’
decimal;
‘o’
octal;
‘x’
hexadecimal;
‘n’
none (do not print offsets).
The default is octal.
‘–endian=order’ ¶
Reorder input bytes, to handle inputs with differing byte orders, or to
provide consistent output independent of the endian convention of the
current system. Swapping is performed according to the specified –type
size and endian order, which can be ‘little’ or ‘big’.
‘-j bytes’ ¶
‘–skip-bytes=bytes’
Skip bytes input bytes before formatting and writing. If bytes begins
with ‘0x’ or ‘0X’, it is interpreted in hexadecimal; otherwise, if it
begins with ‘0’, in octal; otherwise, in decimal. bytes may be, or may
be an integer optionally followed by, one of the following
multiplicative suffixes:

and so on for ‘T’, ‘P’, ‘E’, ‘Z’, ‘Y’, ‘R’, and ‘Q’. Binary prefixes can
be used, too: ‘KiB’=‘K’, ‘MiB’=‘M’, and so on.
‘-N bytes’ ¶
‘–read-bytes=bytes’
Output at most bytes bytes of the input. Prefixes and suffixes on bytes
are interpreted as for the -j option.
‘-S bytes’ ¶
‘–strings=bytes’
Instead of the normal output, output only string constants: at least
bytes consecutive printable characters, followed by a zero byte (ASCII
NUL). Prefixes and suffixes on bytes are interpreted as for the -j
option. If combined with the -N option, truncated strings are considered
ASCII NUL terminated.
If bytes is omitted with –strings, the default is 3.
‘-t type’ ¶
‘–format=type’
Select the format in which to output the file data. type is a string of
one or more of the below type indicator characters. If you include more
than one type indicator character in a single type string, or use this
option more than once, od writes one copy of each output line using each
of the data types that you specified, in the order that you specified.
Adding a trailing “z” to any type specification appends a display of the
single byte character representation of the printable characters to the
output line generated by the type specification.
‘a’
named character, ignoring high-order bit
‘c’
printable single byte character, C backslash escape or a 3 digit octal
sequence
‘d’
signed decimal
‘f’
floating point (see Floating point numbers)
‘o’
octal
‘u’
unsigned decimal
‘x’
hexadecimal
The type a outputs things like ‘sp’ for space, ‘nl’ for newline, and
‘nul’ for a zero byte. Only the least significant seven bits of each
byte is used; the high-order bit is ignored. Type c outputs ‘ ’, ‘’, and
\0, respectively.
Except for types ‘a’ and ‘c’, you can specify the number of bytes to use
in interpreting each number in the given data type by following the type
indicator character with a decimal integer. Alternately, you can specify
the size of one of the C compiler’s built-in data types by following the
type indicator character with one of the following characters. For
integers (‘d’, ‘o’, ‘u’, ‘x’):
‘C’
char
‘S’
short
‘I’
int
‘L’
long
For floating point (f):
B
brain 16 bit float
H
half precision float
F
float
D
double
L
long double
‘-v’ ¶
‘–output-duplicates’
Output consecutive lines that are identical. By default, when two or
more consecutive output lines would be identical, od outputs only the
first line, and puts just an asterisk on the following line to indicate
the elision.
‘-w n’ ¶
‘–width=n’
Dump n input bytes per output line. This must be a multiple of the least
common multiple of the sizes associated with the specified output types.
If this option is not given at all, the default is 16. If n is omitted,
the default is 32.
The next several options are shorthands for format specifications. GNU
od accepts any combination of shorthands and format specification
options. These options accumulate.
‘-a’ ¶
Output as named characters. Equivalent to ‘-t a’.
‘-b’ ¶
Output as octal bytes. Equivalent to ‘-t o1’.
‘-c’ ¶
Output as printable single byte characters, C backslash escapes or 3
digit octal sequences. Equivalent to ‘-t c’.
‘-d’ ¶
Output as unsigned decimal two-byte units. Equivalent to ‘-t u2’.
‘-f’ ¶
Output as floats. Equivalent to ‘-t fF’.
‘-i’ ¶
Output as decimal ints. Equivalent to ‘-t dI’.
‘-l’ ¶
Output as decimal long ints. Equivalent to ‘-t dL’.
‘-o’ ¶
Output as octal two-byte units. Equivalent to -t o2.
‘-s’ ¶
Output as decimal two-byte units. Equivalent to -t d2.
‘-x’ ¶
Output as hexadecimal two-byte units. Equivalent to ‘-t x2’.
‘–traditional’ ¶
Recognize the non-option label argument that traditional od accepted.
The following syntax:

can be used to specify at most one file and optional arguments
specifying an offset and a pseudo-start address, label. The label
argument is interpreted just like offset, but it specifies an initial
pseudo-address. The pseudo-addresses are displayed in parentheses
following any normal address.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: base64: Transform data into printable data, Previous: od: Write
files in octal or other formats, Up: Output of entire files  
[Contents][Index]

3.5 base32: Transform data into printable data ¶

base32 transforms data read from a file, or standard input, into (or
from) base32 encoded form. The base32 encoded form uses printable ASCII
characters to represent binary data. The usage and options of this
command are precisely the same as for base64. See base64: Transform data
into printable data. For more general encoding functionality see basenc:
Transform data into printable data.
Next: basenc: Transform data into printable data, Previous: base32:
Transform data into printable data, Up: Output of entire files  
[Contents][Index]

3.6 base64: Transform data into printable data ¶

base64 transforms data read from a file, or standard input, into (or
from) base64 encoded form. The base64 encoded form uses printable ASCII
characters to represent binary data. Synopses:

The base64 encoding expands data to roughly 133% of the original. The
base32 encoding expands data to roughly 160% of the original. The format
conforms to RFC 4648.
For more general encoding functionality see basenc: Transform data into
printable data.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-w cols’ ¶
‘–wrap=cols’
During encoding, wrap lines after cols characters. This must be a
positive number.
The default is to wrap after 76 characters. Use the value 0 to disable
line wrapping altogether.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–decode’
Change the mode of operation, from the default of encoding data, to
decoding data. Input is expected to be base64 encoded data, and the
output will be the original data.
‘-i’ ¶
‘–ignore-garbage’
When decoding, newlines are always accepted. During decoding, ignore
unrecognized bytes, to permit distorted data to be decoded.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Previous: base64: Transform data into printable data, Up: Output of
entire files   [Contents][Index]

3.7 basenc: Transform data into printable data ¶

basenc transforms data read from a file, or standard input, into (or
from) various common encoding forms. The encoded form uses printable
ASCII characters to represent binary data.
Synopses:

The encoding argument is required. If file is omitted, basenc reads from
standard input. The -w/–wrap,-i/–ignore-garbage, -d/–decode options of
this command are precisely the same as for base64. See base64: Transform
data into printable data.
Supported encodings are:
‘–base64’ ¶
Encode into (or decode from with -d/–decode) base64 form. The format
conforms to RFC 4648#4. Equivalent to the base64 command.
‘–base64url’ ¶
Encode into (or decode from with -d/–decode) file-and-url-safe base64
form (using ‘_’ and ‘-’ instead of ‘+’ and ‘/’). The format conforms to
RFC 4648#5.
‘–base58’ ¶
Encode into (or decode from with -d/–decode) base58 form. The format
conforms to Base58 draft. This encoding is useful for transcription as
the output avoids visually similar characters. It’s best suited to
smaller amounts of data. For example this generates a unique 128 bit ID
in 22 bytes:

‘–base32’ ¶
Encode into (or decode from with -d/–decode) base32 form. The encoded
data uses the ‘ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ234567=’ characters. The format
conforms to RFC 4648#6. Equivalent to the base32 command.
‘–base32hex’ ¶
Encode into (or decode from with -d/–decode) Extended Hex Alphabet
base32 form. The encoded data uses the
‘0123456789ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUV=’ characters. The format conforms to
RFC 4648#7.
‘–base16’ ¶
Encode into (or decode from with -d/–decode) base16 (hexadecimal) form.
The encoded data uses the ‘0123456789ABCDEF’ characters. The format
conforms to RFC 4648#8.
‘–base2lsbf’ ¶
Encode into (or decode from with -d/–decode) binary string form (‘0’ and
‘1’) with the least significant bit of every byte first.
‘–base2msbf’ ¶
Encode into (or decode from with -d/–decode) binary string form (‘0’ and
‘1’) with the most significant bit of every byte first.
‘–z85’ ¶
Encode into (or decode from with -d/–decode) Z85 form (a modified
Ascii85 form). The encoded data uses the
‘0123456789abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTU VWXYZ.-:+=^!/*?&<>()@%$#’.
characters. The format conforms to ZeroMQ spec:32/Z85.
When encoding with –z85, input length must be a multiple of 4; when
decoding with –z85, input length must be a multiple of 5.
Encoding/decoding examples:

Next: Output of parts of files, Previous: Output of entire files, Up:
GNU Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

4 Formatting file contents ¶

These commands reformat the contents of files.
fmt: Reformat paragraph text
pr: Paginate or columnate files for printing
fold: Wrap input lines to fit in specified width
Next: pr: Paginate or columnate files for printing, Up: Formatting file
contents   [Contents][Index]

4.1 fmt: Reformat paragraph text ¶

fmt fills and joins lines to produce output lines of (at most) a given
number of characters (75 by default). Synopsis:

fmt reads from the specified file arguments (or standard input if none
are given), and writes to standard output.
By default, blank lines, spaces between words, and indentation are
preserved in the output; successive input lines with different
indentation are not joined; tabs are expanded on input and introduced on
output.
fmt prefers breaking lines at the end of a sentence, and tries to avoid
line breaks after the first word of a sentence or before the last word
of a sentence. A sentence break is defined as either the end of a
paragraph or a word ending in any of ‘.?!’, followed by two spaces or
end of line, ignoring any intervening parentheses or quotes. Like TeX,
fmt reads entire “paragraphs” before choosing line breaks; the algorithm
is a variant of that given by Donald E. Knuth and Michael F. Plass in
“Breaking Paragraphs Into Lines”, Software: Practice & Experience 11, 11
(November 1981), 1119–1184.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–crown-margin’
Crown margin mode: preserve the indentation of the first two lines
within a paragraph, and align the left margin of each subsequent line
with that of the second line.
‘-t’ ¶
‘–tagged-paragraph’
Tagged paragraph mode: like crown margin mode, except that if
indentation of the first line of a paragraph is the same as the
indentation of the second, the first line is treated as a one-line
paragraph.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–split-only’
Split lines only. Do not join short lines to form longer ones. This
prevents sample lines of code, and other such “formatted” text from
being unduly combined.
‘-u’ ¶
‘–uniform-spacing’
Uniform spacing. Reduce spacing between words to one space, and spacing
between sentences to two spaces.
‘-width’ ¶
‘-w width’
‘–width=width’
Fill output lines up to width characters (default 75 or goal plus 10, if
goal is provided).
‘-g goal’ ¶
‘–goal=goal’
fmt initially tries to make lines goal characters wide. By default, this
is 7% shorter than width.
‘-p prefix’ ¶
‘–prefix=prefix’
Only lines beginning with prefix (possibly preceded by whitespace) are
subject to formatting. The prefix and any preceding whitespace are
stripped for the formatting and then re-attached to each formatted
output line. One use is to format certain kinds of program comments,
while leaving the code unchanged.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: fold: Wrap input lines to fit in specified width, Previous: fmt:
Reformat paragraph text, Up: Formatting file contents  
[Contents][Index]

4.2 pr: Paginate or columnate files for printing ¶

pr writes each file (‘-’ means standard input), or standard input if
none are given, to standard output, paginating and optionally outputting
in multicolumn format; optionally merges all files, printing all in
parallel, one per column. Synopsis:

By default, a 5-line header is printed at each page: two blank lines; a
line with the date, the file name, and the page count; and two more
blank lines. A footer of five blank lines is also printed. The default
page_length is 66 lines. The default number of text lines is therefore
56. The text line of the header takes the form ‘date string page’, with
spaces inserted around string so that the line takes up the full
page_width. Here, date is the date (see the -D or –date-format option
for details), string is the centered header string, and page identifies
the page number. The LC_MESSAGES locale category affects the spelling of
page; in the default C locale, it is ‘Page number’ where number is the
decimal page number.
Form feeds in the input cause page breaks in the output. Multiple form
feeds produce empty pages.
Columns are of equal width, separated by an optional string (default is
‘space’). For multicolumn output, lines will always be truncated to
page_width (default 72), unless you use the -J option. For single column
output no line truncation occurs by default. Use -W option to truncate
lines in that case.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘+first_page[:last_page]’
‘–pages=first_page[:last_page]’
Begin printing with page first_page and stop with last_page. Missing
‘:last_page’ implies end of file. While estimating the number of skipped
pages each form feed in the input file results in a new page. Page
counting with and without ‘+first_page’ is identical. By default,
counting starts with the first page of input file (not first page
printed). Line numbering may be altered by -N option.
‘-column’ ¶
‘–columns=column’
With each single file, produce column columns of output (default is 1)
and print columns down, unless -a is used. The column width is
automatically decreased as column increases; unless you use the -W/-w
option to increase page_width as well. This option might well cause some
lines to be truncated. The number of lines in the columns on each page
are balanced. The options -e and -i are on for multiple text-column
output. Together with -J option column alignment and line truncation is
turned off. Since spaces are converted to TABs in multicolumn output,
they can be converted back by further processing through pr -t -e or
expand. Lines of full length are joined in a free field format and -S
option may set field separators. -column may not be used with the -m
option.
‘-a’ ¶
‘–across’
With each single file, print columns across rather than down. The
-column option must be given with column greater than one. If a line is
too long to fit in a column, it is truncated.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–show-control-chars’
Print control characters using hat notation (e.g., ‘^G’); print other
nonprinting characters in octal backslash notation. By default,
nonprinting characters are not changed.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–double-space’
Double space the output.
‘-D format’ ¶
‘–date-format=format’
Format header dates using format, using the same conventions as for the
command ‘date +format’. See date: Print or set system date and time.
Except for directives, which start with ‘%’, characters in format are
printed unchanged. You can use this option to specify an arbitrary
string in place of the header date, e.g., –date-format="Monday morning".
The default date format is ‘%Y-%m-%d %H:%M’ (for example, ‘2020-07-09
23:59’); but if the POSIXLY_CORRECT environment variable is set and the
LC_TIME locale category specifies the POSIX locale, the default is ‘%b
%e %H:%M %Y’ (for example, ‘Jul  9 23:59 2020’.
Timestamps are listed according to the time zone rules specified by the
TZ environment variable, or by the system default rules if TZ is not
set. See Specifying the Time Zone with TZ in The GNU C Library Reference
Manual.
‘-e[in-tabchar[in-tabwidth]]’ ¶
‘–expand-tabs[=in-tabchar[in-tabwidth]]’
Expand tabs to spaces on input. Optional argument in-tabchar is the
input tab character (default is the TAB character). Second optional
argument in-tabwidth is the input tab character’s width (default is 8).
‘-f’ ¶
‘-F’
‘–form-feed’
Use a form feed instead of newlines to separate output pages. This does
not alter the default page length of 66 lines.
‘-h header’ ¶
‘–header=header’
Replace the file name in the header with the centered string header.
When using the shell, header should be quoted and should be separated
from -h by a space.
‘-i [out-tabchar[out-tabwidth]]’ ¶
‘–output-tabs=[out-tabchar[out-tabwidth]]’
Replace spaces with tabs on output. Optional argument out-tabchar is the
output tab character (default is the TAB character). Second optional
argument out-tabwidth is the output tab character’s width (default is
8).
‘-J’ ¶
‘–join-lines’
Merge lines of full length. Used together with the column options
-column, -a -column or -m. Turns off -W/-w line truncation; no column
alignment used; may be used with –sep-string[=string]. -J has been
introduced (together with -W and –sep-string) to disentangle the old
(POSIX-compliant) options -w and -s along with the three column options.
‘-l page_length’ ¶
‘–length=page_length’
Set the page length to page_length (default 66) lines, including the
lines of the header [and the footer]. If page_length is less than or
equal to 10, the header and footer are omitted, as if the -t option had
been given.
‘-m’ ¶
‘–merge’
Merge and print all files in parallel, one in each column. If a line is
too long to fit in a column, it is truncated, unless the -J option is
used. –sep-string[=string] may be used. Empty pages in some files (form
feeds set) produce empty columns, still marked by string. The result is
a continuous line numbering and column marking throughout the whole
merged file. Completely empty merged pages show no separators or line
numbers. The default header becomes ‘date page’ with spaces inserted in
the middle; this may be used with the -h or –header option to fill up
the middle blank part.
‘-n[number-separator[digits]]’ ¶
‘–number-lines[=number-separator[digits]]’
Provide digits digit line numbering (default for digits is 5). With
multicolumn output the number occupies the first digits column positions
of each text column or only each line of -m output. With single column
output the number precedes each line just as -m does. Default counting
of the line numbers starts with the first line of the input file (not
the first line printed, compare the –page option and -N option).
Optional argument number-separator is the character appended to the line
number to separate it from the text followed. The default separator is
the TAB character. In a strict sense a TAB is always printed with single
column output only. The TAB width varies with the TAB position, e.g.,
with the left margin specified by -o option. With multicolumn output
priority is given to ‘equal width of output columns’ (a POSIX
specification). The TAB width is fixed to the value of the first column
and does not change with different values of left margin. That means a
fixed number of spaces is always printed in the place of the
number-separator TAB. The tabification depends upon the output position.
‘-N line_number’ ¶
‘–first-line-number=line_number’
Start line counting with the number line_number at first line of first
page printed (in most cases not the first line of the input file).
‘-o margin’ ¶
‘–indent=margin’
Indent each line with a margin margin spaces wide (default is zero). The
total page width is the size of the margin plus the page_width set with
the -W/-w option. A limited overflow may occur with numbered single
column output (compare -n option).
‘-r’ ¶
‘–no-file-warnings’
Do not print a warning message when an argument file cannot be opened.
(The exit status will still be nonzero, however.)
‘-s char’ ¶
‘–separator=char’
Separate columns by a single character char. The default for char is the
TAB character without -w and ‘no character’ with -w. Without -s the
default separator ‘space’ is set. -s[char] turns off line truncation of
all three column options (-COLUMN|-a -COLUMN|-m) unless -w is set. This
is a POSIX-compliant formulation.
‘-S[string]’ ¶
‘–sep-string[=string]’
Use string to separate output columns. The -S option doesn’t affect the
-W/-w option, unlike the -s option which does. It does not affect line
truncation or column alignment. Without -S, and with -J, pr uses the
default output separator, TAB. Without -S or -J, pr uses a ‘space’ (same
as -S" "). If no ‘string’ argument is specified, ‘""’ is assumed.
‘-t’ ¶
‘–omit-header’
Do not print the usual header [and footer] on each page, and do not fill
out the bottom of pages (with blank lines or a form feed). No page
structure is produced, but form feeds set in the input files are
retained. The predefined pagination is not changed. -t or -T may be
useful together with other options; e.g.: -t -e4, expand TAB characters
in the input file to 4 spaces but don’t make any other changes. Use of
-t overrides -h.
‘-T’ ¶
‘–omit-pagination’
Do not print header [and footer]. In addition eliminate all form feeds
set in the input files.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–show-nonprinting’
Print nonprinting characters in octal backslash notation.
‘-w page_width’ ¶
‘–width=page_width’
Set page width to page_width characters for multiple text-column output
only (default for page_width is 72). The specified page_width is rounded
down so that columns have equal width. -s[CHAR] turns off the default
page width and any line truncation and column alignment. Lines of full
length are merged, regardless of the column options set. No page_width
setting is possible with single column output. A POSIX-compliant
formulation.
‘-W page_width’ ¶
‘–page-width=page_width’
Set the page width to page_width characters, honored with and without a
column option. With a column option, the specified page_width is rounded
down so that columns have equal width. Text lines are truncated, unless
-J is used. Together with one of the three column options (-column, -a
-column or -m) column alignment is always used. The separator options -S
or -s don’t disable the -W option. Default is 72 characters. Without -W
page_width and without any of the column options NO line truncation is
used (defined to keep downward compatibility and to meet most frequent
tasks). That’s equivalent to -W 72 -J. The header line is never
truncated.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Previous: pr: Paginate or columnate files for printing, Up: Formatting
file contents   [Contents][Index]

4.3 fold: Wrap input lines to fit in specified width ¶

fold writes each file (- means standard input), or standard input if
none are given, to standard output, breaking long lines. Synopsis:

By default, fold breaks lines wider than 80 columns. The output is split
into as many lines as necessary.
fold counts screen columns by default; thus, a tab may count more than
one column, backspace decreases the column count, and carriage return
sets the column to zero.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–bytes’
Count bytes rather than columns, so that tabs, backspaces, and carriage
returns are each counted as taking up one column, just like other
characters.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–characters’
Count characters rather than columns, meaning that lines containing
characters wider than one column will be visually longer.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–spaces’
Break at word boundaries: the line is broken after the last blank before
the maximum line length. If the line contains no such blanks, the line
is broken at the maximum line length as usual.
‘-w width’ ¶
‘–widthwidth’
Use a maximum line length of width columns instead of 80.
For compatibility fold supports an obsolete option syntax -width. New
scripts should use -w width instead.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: Summarizing files, Previous: Formatting file contents, Up: GNU
Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

5 Output of parts of files ¶

These commands output pieces of the input.
head: Output the first part of files
tail: Output the last part of files
split: Split a file into pieces.
csplit: Split a file into context-determined pieces
Next: tail: Output the last part of files, Up: Output of parts of files
  [Contents][Index]

5.1 head: Output the first part of files ¶

head prints the first part (10 lines by default) of each file; it reads
from standard input if no files are given or when given a file of -.
Synopsis:

If more than one file is specified, head prints a one-line header
consisting of:

before the output for each file.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-c [-]num’ ¶
‘–bytes=[-]num’
Print the first num bytes, instead of initial lines. However, if num is
prefixed with a ‘-’, print all but the last num bytes of each file. num
may be, or may be an integer optionally followed by, one of the
following multiplicative suffixes:

and so on for ‘T’, ‘P’, ‘E’, ‘Z’, ‘Y’, ‘R’, and ‘Q’. Binary prefixes can
be used, too: ‘KiB’=‘K’, ‘MiB’=‘M’, and so on.
‘-n [-]num’ ¶
‘–lines=[-]num’
Output the first num lines. However, if num is prefixed with a ‘-’,
print all but the last num lines of each file. Size multiplier suffixes
are the same as with the -c option.
‘-q’ ¶
‘–quiet’
‘–silent’
Never print file name headers.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Always print file name headers.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero-terminated’
Delimit items with a zero byte rather than a newline (ASCII LF). I.e.,
treat input as items separated by ASCII NUL and terminate output items
with ASCII NUL. This option can be useful in conjunction with ‘perl -0’
or ‘find -print0’ and ‘xargs -0’ which do the same in order to reliably
handle arbitrary file names (even those containing blanks or other
special characters).
For compatibility head also supports an obsolete option syntax
-[num][bkm][cqv], which is recognized only if it is specified first. num
is a decimal number optionally followed by a size letter (‘b’, ‘k’, ‘m’)
as in -c, or ‘l’ to mean count by lines, or other option letters
(‘cqv’). Scripts intended for standard hosts should use -c num or -n num
instead. If your script must also run on hosts that support only the
obsolete syntax, it is usually simpler to avoid head, e.g., by using
‘sed 5q’ instead of ‘head -5’.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: split: Split a file into pieces., Previous: head: Output the first
part of files, Up: Output of parts of files   [Contents][Index]

5.2 tail: Output the last part of files ¶

tail prints the last part (10 lines by default) of each file; it reads
from standard input if no files are given or when given a file of ‘-’.
Synopsis:

If more than one file is specified, tail prints a one-line header before
the output for each file, consisting of:

For further processing of tail output, it can be useful to convert the
file headers to line prefixes, which can be done like:

GNU tail can output any amount of data (some other versions of tail
cannot). It also has no -r option (print in reverse), since reversing a
file is really a different job from printing the end of a file; BSD tail
(which is the one with -r) can only reverse files that are at most as
large as its buffer, which is typically 32 KiB. A more reliable and
versatile way to reverse files is the GNU tac command.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-c [+]num’ ¶
‘–bytes=[+]num’
Output the last num bytes, instead of final lines. If num is prefixed
with a ‘+’, start printing with byte num from the start of each file.
For example to skip the first byte use tail -c +2, while to skip all but
the last byte use tail -c 1. num may be, or may be an integer optionally
followed by, one of the following multiplicative suffixes:

and so on for ‘T’, ‘P’, ‘E’, ‘Z’, ‘Y’, ‘R’, and ‘Q’. Binary prefixes can
be used, too: ‘KiB’=‘K’, ‘MiB’=‘M’, and so on.
‘–debug’ ¶
Output extra information to standard error, like the –follow
implementation being used.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–follow[=how]’
Loop forever trying to read more characters at the end of the file,
presumably because the file is growing. If more than one file is given,
tail prints a header whenever it gets output from a different file, to
indicate which file that output is from.
There are two ways to specify how you’d like to track files with this
option, but that difference is noticeable only when a followed file is
removed or renamed. If you’d like to continue to track the end of a
growing file even after it has been unlinked, use –follow=descriptor.
This is the default behavior, but it is not useful if you’re tracking a
log file that may be rotated (removed or renamed, then reopened). In
that case, use –follow=name to track the named file, perhaps by
reopening it periodically to see if it has been removed and recreated by
some other program. The inotify-based implementation handles this case
without the need for any periodic reopening.
No matter which method you use, if the tracked file is determined to
have shrunk, tail prints a message saying the file has been truncated
and resumes tracking from the start of the file, assuming it has been
truncated to 0, which is the usual truncation operation for log files.
When a file is removed, tail’s behavior depends on whether it is
following the name or the descriptor. When following by name, tail can
detect that a file has been removed and gives a message to that effect,
and if –retry has been specified it will continue checking periodically
to see if the file reappears. When following a descriptor, tail does not
detect that the file has been unlinked or renamed and issues no message;
even though the file may no longer be accessible via its original name,
it may still be growing.
The option values ‘descriptor’ and ‘name’ may be specified only with the
long form of the option, not with -f.
The -f option is ignored if no file operand is specified and standard
input is a FIFO or a pipe. Likewise, the -f option has no effect for any
operand specified as ‘-’, when standard input is a FIFO or a pipe.
With kernel inotify support, output is triggered by file changes and is
generally very prompt. Otherwise, tail sleeps for one second between
checks – use –sleep-interval=n to change that default – which can make
the output appear slightly less responsive or bursty. When using tail
without inotify support, you can make it more responsive by using a
sub-second sleep interval, e.g., via an alias like this:

‘-F’ ¶
This option is the same as –follow=name –retry. That is, tail will
attempt to reopen a file when it is removed. Should this fail, tail will
keep trying until it becomes accessible again.
‘–max-unchanged-stats=n’ ¶
When tailing a file by name, if there have been n (default n=5)
consecutive iterations for which the file has not changed, then
open/fstat the file to determine if that file name is still associated
with the same device/inode-number pair as before. When following a log
file that is rotated, this is approximately the number of seconds
between when tail prints the last pre-rotation lines and when it prints
the lines that have accumulated in the new log file. This option is
meaningful only when polling (i.e., without inotify) and when following
by name.
‘-n [+]num’ ¶
‘–lines=[+]num’
Output the last num lines. If num is prefixed with a ‘+’, start printing
with line num from the start of each file. For example to skip the first
line use tail -n +2, while to skip all but the last line use tail -n 1.
Size multiplier suffixes are the same as with the -c option.
‘–pid=pid’ ¶
When following by name or by descriptor, you may specify the process ID,
pid, of one or more (by repeating –pid) writers of the file arguments.
Then, tail will exit shortly after all the identified processes no
longer exist. This will work properly only if the writers and the
tailing process are running on the same machine. For example, to save
the output of a build in a file and to watch the file grow, if you
invoke make and tail like this then the tail process will stop when your
build completes. Without this option, you would have had to kill the
tail -f process yourself.

If you specify a pid that is not in use or that does not correspond to
the process that is writing to the tailed files, then tail may terminate
long before any files stop growing or it may not terminate until long
after the real writer has terminated. On some systems, –pid is not
supported and tail outputs a warning.
‘-q’ ¶
‘–quiet’
‘–silent’
Never print file name headers.
‘–retry’ ¶
Indefinitely try to open the specified file. This option is useful
mainly when following (and otherwise issues a warning).
When following by file descriptor (i.e., with –follow=descriptor), this
option only affects the initial open of the file, as after a successful
open, tail will start following the file descriptor.
When following by name (i.e., with –follow=name), tail infinitely
retries to re-open the given files until killed.
Without this option, when tail encounters a file that doesn’t exist or
is otherwise inaccessible, it reports that fact and never checks it
again.
‘-s number’ ¶
‘–sleep-interval=number’
Change the number of seconds to wait between iterations (the default is
1.0). During one iteration, every specified file is checked to see if it
has changed size. When tail uses inotify, this polling-related option is
usually ignored. However, if you also specify –pid=p, tail checks
whether process p is alive at least every number seconds. The number
must be non-negative and can be a floating-point number in either the
current or the C locale. See Floating point numbers.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Always print file name headers.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero-terminated’
Delimit items with a zero byte rather than a newline (ASCII LF). I.e.,
treat input as items separated by ASCII NUL and terminate output items
with ASCII NUL. This option can be useful in conjunction with ‘perl -0’
or ‘find -print0’ and ‘xargs -0’ which do the same in order to reliably
handle arbitrary file names (even those containing blanks or other
special characters).
For compatibility tail also supports an obsolete usage ‘tail
-[num][bcl][f] [file]’, which is recognized only if it does not conflict
with the usage described above. This obsolete form uses exactly one
option and at most one file. In the option, num is an optional decimal
number optionally followed by a size letter (‘b’, ‘c’, ‘l’) to mean
count by 512-byte blocks, bytes, or lines, optionally followed by ‘f’
which has the same meaning as -f.
On systems not conforming to POSIX 1003.1-2001, the leading ‘-’ can be
replaced by ‘+’ in the traditional option syntax with the same meaning
as in counts, and on obsolete systems predating POSIX 1003.1-2001
traditional usage overrides normal usage when the two conflict. This
behavior can be controlled with the _POSIX2_VERSION environment variable
(see Standards conformance).
Scripts intended for use on standard hosts should avoid traditional
syntax and should use -c num[b], -n num, and/or -f instead. If your
script must also run on hosts that support only the traditional syntax,
you can often rewrite it to avoid problematic usages, e.g., by using
‘sed -n ‘$p’’ rather than ‘tail -1’. If that’s not possible, the script
can use a test like ‘if tail -c +1 </dev/null >/dev/null 2>&1; then …’
to decide which syntax to use.
Even if your script assumes the standard behavior, you should still
beware usages whose behaviors differ depending on the POSIX version. For
example, avoid ‘tail - main.c’, since it might be interpreted as either
‘tail main.c’ or as ‘tail – - main.c’; avoid ‘tail -c 4’, since it might
mean either ‘tail -c4’ or ‘tail -c 10 4’; and avoid ‘tail +4’, since it
might mean either ‘tail ./+4’ or ‘tail -n +4’.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: csplit: Split a file into context-determined pieces, Previous:
tail: Output the last part of files, Up: Output of parts of files  
[Contents][Index]

5.3 split: Split a file into pieces. ¶

split creates output files containing consecutive or interleaved
sections of input (standard input if none is given or input is ‘-’).
Synopsis:

By default, split puts 1000 lines of input (or whatever is left over for
the last section), into each output file.
The output files’ names consist of prefix (‘x’ by default) followed by a
group of characters (‘aa’, ‘ab’, … by default), such that concatenating
the output files in traditional sorted order by file name produces the
original input file (except -nr/n). By default split will initially
create files with two generated suffix characters, and will increase
this width by two when the next most significant position reaches the
last character. (‘yz’, ‘zaaa’, ‘zaab’, …). In this way an arbitrary
number of output files are supported, which sort as described above,
even in the presence of an –additional-suffix option. If the -a option
is specified and the output file names are exhausted, split reports an
error without deleting the output files that it did create.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-l lines’ ¶
‘–lines=lines’
Put lines lines of input into each output file. If –separator is
specified, then lines determines the number of records.
For compatibility split also supports an obsolete option syntax -lines.
New scripts should use -l lines instead.
‘-b size’ ¶
‘–bytes=size’
Put size bytes of input into each output file. size may be, or may be an
integer optionally followed by, one of the following multiplicative
suffixes:

and so on for ‘T’, ‘P’, ‘E’, ‘Z’, ‘Y’, ‘R’, and ‘Q’. Binary prefixes can
be used, too: ‘KiB’=‘K’, ‘MiB’=‘M’, and so on.
‘-C size’ ¶
‘–line-bytes=size’
Put into each output file as many complete lines of input as possible
without exceeding size bytes. Individual lines or records longer than
size bytes are broken into multiple files. size has the same format as
for the –bytes option. If –separator is specified, then lines determines
the number of records.
‘–filter=command’ ¶
With this option, rather than simply writing to each output file, write
through a pipe to the specified shell command for each output file.
command should use the $FILE environment variable, which is set to a
different output file name for each invocation of the command. For
example, imagine that you have a 1TiB compressed file that, if
uncompressed, would be too large to reside on secondary storage, yet you
must split it into individually-compressed pieces of a more manageable
size. To do that, you might run this command:

Assuming a 10:1 compression ratio, that would create about fifty 20GiB
files with names big-aa.xz, big-ab.xz, big-ac.xz, etc.
‘-n chunks’ ¶
‘–number=chunks’
Split input to chunks output files where chunks may be:

If the input size is not a multiple of n, early output files are one
byte longer than later output files, to make up the difference. Any
excess bytes appearing after the initial calculation are discarded
(except when using ‘r’ mode).
All n files are created even if there are fewer than n lines, or the
input is truncated.
For ‘l’ mode, chunks are approximately input size / n. Although the
input is still partitioned as before into n regions of approximately
equal size, if a line starts within a partition it is written completely
to the corresponding file. Since lines or records are not split even if
they overlap a partition, the files written can be larger or smaller
than the partition size, and even empty if a line/record is so long as
to completely overlap the partition.
When the input is a pipe or some other special file where the size
cannot easily be determined, there is no trouble for ‘r’ mode because
the size of the input is irrelevant. For other modes, such an input’s
size is determined by first copying to $TMPDIR, or /tmp if the TMPDIR
environment variable is not set or the location is not available.
‘-a length’ ¶
‘–suffix-length=length’
Use suffixes of length length. If a length of 0 is specified, this is
the same as if (any previous) -a was not specified, and thus enables the
default behavior, which starts the suffix length at 2, and unless -n or
–numeric-suffixes=from is specified, will auto increase the length by 2
as required.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–numeric-suffixes[=from]’
Use digits in suffixes rather than lower-case letters. The numerical
suffix counts from from if specified, 0 otherwise.
from is supported with the long form option, and is used to either set
the initial suffix for a single run, or to set the suffix offset for
independently split inputs, and consequently the auto suffix length
expansion described above is disabled. Therefore you may also want to
use option -a to allow suffixes beyond ‘99’. If option –number is
specified and the number of files is less than from, a single run is
assumed and the minimum suffix length required is automatically
determined.
‘-x’ ¶
‘–hex-suffixes[=from]’
Like –numeric-suffixes, but use hexadecimal numbers (in lower case).
‘–additional-suffix=suffix’ ¶
Append an additional suffix to output file names. suffix must not
contain slash.
‘-e’ ¶
‘–elide-empty-files’
Suppress the generation of zero-length output files. This can happen
with the –number option if a file is (truncated to be) shorter than the
number requested, or if a line is so long as to completely span a chunk.
The output file sequence numbers, always run consecutively even when
this option is specified.
‘-t separator’ ¶
‘–separator=separator’
Use character separator as the record separator instead of the default
newline character (ASCII LF). To specify ASCII NUL as the separator, use
the two-character string ‘\0’, e.g., ‘split -t ‘\0’’.
‘-u’ ¶
‘–unbuffered’
Immediately copy input to output in –number r/… mode, which is a much
slower mode of operation.
‘–verbose’ ¶
Write a diagnostic just before each output file is opened.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Here are a few examples to illustrate how the –number (-n) option works:
Notice how, by default, one line may be split onto two or more:

Use the “l/” modifier to suppress that:

Use the “r/” modifier to distribute lines in a round-robin fashion:

You can also extract just the Kth chunk. This extracts and prints just
the 7th “chunk” of 33:

Previous: split: Split a file into pieces., Up: Output of parts of files
  [Contents][Index]

5.4 csplit: Split a file into context-determined pieces ¶

csplit creates zero or more output files containing sections of input
(standard input if input is ‘-’). Synopsis:

The contents of the output files are determined by the pattern
arguments, as detailed below. An error occurs if a pattern argument
refers to a nonexistent line of the input file (e.g., if no remaining
line matches a given regular expression). After every pattern has been
matched, any remaining input is copied into one last output file.
By default, csplit prints the number of bytes written to each output
file after it has been created.
The types of pattern arguments are:
‘n’
Create an output file containing the input up to but not including line
n (a positive integer). If followed by a repeat count, also create an
output file containing the next n lines of the input file once for each
repeat.
‘/regexp/[offset]’
Create an output file containing the current line up to (but not
including) the next line of the input file that contains a match for
regexp. The optional offset is an integer, that can be preceded by ‘+’
or ‘-’. If it is given, the input up to (but not including) the matching
line plus or minus offset is put into the output file, and the line
after that begins the next section of input. Lines within a negative
offset of a regexp pattern are not matched in subsequent regexp
patterns.
‘%regexp%[offset]’
Like the previous type, except that it does not create an output file,
so that section of the input file is effectively ignored.
‘{repeat-count}’
Repeat the previous pattern repeat-count additional times. The
repeat-count can either be a positive integer or an asterisk, meaning
repeat as many times as necessary until the input is exhausted.
The output files’ names consist of a prefix (‘xx’ by default) followed
by a suffix. By default, the suffix is an ascending sequence of
two-digit decimal numbers from ‘00’ to ‘99’. In any case, concatenating
the output files in sorted order by file name produces the original
input file, excluding portions skipped with a %regexp% pattern or the
–suppress-matched option.
By default, if csplit encounters an error or receives a hangup,
interrupt, quit, or terminate signal, it removes any output files that
it has created so far before it exits.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-f prefix’ ¶
‘–prefix=prefix’
Use prefix as the output file name prefix.
‘-b format’ ¶
‘–suffix-format=format’
Use format as the output file name suffix. When this option is
specified, the suffix string must include exactly one printf(3)-style
conversion specification, possibly including format specification flags,
a field width, a precision specification, or all of these kinds of
modifiers. The format letter must convert a binary unsigned integer
argument to readable form. The format letters ‘d’ and ‘i’ are aliases
for ‘u’, and the ‘u’, ‘o’, ‘x’, and ‘X’ conversions are allowed. The
entire format is given (with the current output file number) to
sprintf(3) to form the file name suffixes for each of the individual
output files in turn. If this option is used, the –digits option is
ignored.
‘-n digits’ ¶
‘–digits=digits’
Use output file names containing numbers that are digits digits long
instead of the default 2.
‘-k’ ¶
‘–keep-files’
Do not remove output files when errors are encountered.
‘–suppress-matched’ ¶
Do not output lines matching the specified pattern. I.e., suppress the
boundary line from the start of the second and subsequent splits.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–elide-empty-files’
Suppress the generation of zero-length output files. (In cases where the
section delimiters of the input file are supposed to mark the first
lines of each of the sections, the first output file will generally be a
zero-length file unless you use this option.) The output file sequence
numbers always run consecutively starting from 0, even when this option
is specified.
‘-s’ ¶
‘-q’
‘–silent’
‘–quiet’
Do not print counts of output file sizes.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Here is an example of its usage. First, create an empty directory for
the exercise, and cd into it:

Now, split the sequence of 1..14 on lines that end with 0 or 5:

Each number printed above is the size of an output file that csplit has
just created. List the names of those output files:

Use head to show their contents:

Example of splitting input by empty lines:

Next: Operating on sorted files, Previous: Output of parts of files, Up:
GNU Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

6 Summarizing files ¶

These commands generate just a few numbers representing entire contents
of files.
wc: Print newline, word, and byte counts
sum: Print checksum and block counts
cksum: Print and verify file checksums
md5sum: Print or check MD5 digests
b2sum: Print or check BLAKE2 digests
sha1sum: Print or check SHA-1 digests
sha2 utilities: Print or check SHA-2 digests
Next: sum: Print checksum and block counts, Up: Summarizing files  
[Contents][Index]

6.1 wc: Print newline, word, and byte counts ¶

wc counts the number of bytes, characters, words, and newlines in each
given file, or standard input if none are given or for a file of ‘-’. A
word is a nonempty sequence of non white space delimited by white space
characters or by start or end of input. Synopsis:

wc prints one line of counts for each file, and if the file was given as
an argument, it prints the file name following the counts. By default if
more than one file is given, wc prints a final line containing the
cumulative counts, with the file name total. This ‘total’ line can be
controlled with the –total option, which is a GNU extension. The counts
are printed in this order: newlines, words, characters, bytes, maximum
line length. Each count is printed right-justified in a field with at
least one space between fields so that the numbers and file names
normally line up nicely in columns. The width of the count fields varies
depending on the inputs, so you should not depend on a particular field
width. However, as a GNU extension, if only one count is printed, it is
guaranteed to be printed without leading spaces.
By default, wc prints three counts: the newline, words, and byte counts.
Options can specify that only certain counts be printed. Options do not
undo others previously given, so

prints both the byte counts and the word counts.
With the –max-line-length option, wc prints the length of the longest
line per file, and if there is more than one file it prints the maximum
(not the sum) of those lengths. The line lengths here are measured in
screen columns, according to the current locale and assuming tab
positions in every 8th column.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–bytes’
Print only the byte counts.
‘-m’ ¶
‘–chars’
Print only the character counts, as per the current locale. Encoding
errors are not counted.
‘-w’ ¶
‘–words’
Print only the word counts. A word is a nonempty sequence of non white
space delimited by white space characters or by start or end of input.
The current locale determines which characters are white space. GNU wc
treats encoding errors as non white space.
Unless the environment variable POSIXLY_CORRECT is set, GNU wc treats
the following Unicode characters as white space even if the current
locale does not: U+00A0 NO-BREAK SPACE, U+2007 FIGURE SPACE, U+202F
NARROW NO-BREAK SPACE, and U+2060 WORD JOINER.
‘-l’ ¶
‘–lines’
Print only the newline character counts. If a file ends in a non-newline
character, its trailing partial line is not counted.
‘–debug’ ¶
Output extra information to standard error. Currently; print the line
count acceleration implementation being used.
‘-L’ ¶
‘–max-line-length’
Print only the maximum display widths. Tabs are set at every 8th column.
Display widths of wide characters are considered. Non-printable
characters are given 0 width.
‘–total’ ¶
Control when and how the final line with cumulative counts is printed.
when is one of:
auto  - This is the default mode of wc when no –total option is
specified. Output a total line if more than one file is specified.
always  - Always output a total line, irrespective of the number of
files processed.
only  - Only output total counts. I.e., don’t print individual file
counts, suppress any leading spaces, and don’t print the ‘total’ word
itself, to simplify subsequent processing.
never  - Never output a total line.
‘–files0-from=file’ ¶
Disallow processing files named on the command line, and instead process
those named in file file; each name being terminated by a zero byte
(ASCII NUL). This is useful when the list of file names is so long that
it may exceed a command line length limitation. In such cases, running
wc via xargs is undesirable because it splits the list into pieces and
makes wc print a total for each sublist rather than for the entire list.
One way to produce a list of ASCII NUL terminated file names is with GNU
find, using its -print0 predicate. If file is ‘-’ then the ASCII NUL
terminated file names are read from standard input.
For example, to find the length of the longest line in any .c or .h file
in the current hierarchy, do this:

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: cksum: Print and verify file checksums, Previous: wc: Print
newline, word, and byte counts, Up: Summarizing files  
[Contents][Index]

6.2 sum: Print checksum and block counts ¶

sum computes a 16-bit checksum for each given file, or standard input if
none are given or for a file of ‘-’. Synopsis:

sum prints the checksum for each file followed by the number of blocks
in the file (rounded up). If at least one file is given, file names are
also printed.
By default, GNU sum computes checksums using an algorithm compatible
with BSD sum and prints file sizes in units of 1024-byte blocks.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-r’ ¶
Use the default (BSD compatible) algorithm. This option is included for
compatibility with the System V sum. Unless -s was also given, it has no
effect.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–sysv’
Compute checksums using an algorithm compatible with System V sum’s
default, and print file sizes in units of 512-byte blocks.
sum is provided for compatibility; the cksum program (see next section)
is preferable in new applications.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: md5sum: Print or check MD5 digests, Previous: sum: Print checksum
and block counts, Up: Summarizing files   [Contents][Index]

6.3 cksum: Print and verify file checksums ¶

cksum by default computes a 32-bit cyclic redundancy check (CRC)
checksum for each given file, or standard input if none are given or for
a file of ‘-’.
cksum also supports the -a/–algorithm option to select the digest
algorithm to use. cksum is the preferred interface to these digests,
subsuming the other standalone checksumming utilities, which can be
emulated using cksum -a md5 –untagged "$@" etc. Synopsis:

cksum is typically used to ensure that files have not been corrupted, by
comparing the cksum output for the received files with the cksum output
for the original files (typically given in the distribution).
cksum output modes
cksum general options
cksum common options
Next: cksum general options, Up: cksum: Print and verify file checksums
  [Contents][Index]

6.3.1 cksum output modes ¶
Legacy output format
cksum by default prints the POSIX standard CRC checksum for each file
along with the number of bytes in the file, and the file name unless no
arguments were given. The 32-bit CRC used is based on the polynomial
used for CRC error checking in the ISO/IEC 8802-3:1996 standard
(Ethernet). Similar output formats are used for the other legacy
checksums selectable with –algorithm=crc32b, and –algorithm=sysv or
–algorithm=bsd detailed at sum: Print checksum and block counts.
Tagged output format
With the –algorithm option selecting non legacy checksums, the cksum
command defaults to output of the form:

The standalone checksum utilities can select this output mode by using
the –tag option.
Untagged output format
With the –untagged option and the –algorithm option selecting non legacy
checksums, the following output format is used. This is the default
output format of the standalone checksum utilities. For each file, we
print the checksum, a space, a flag indicating binary or text input
mode, and the file name. Binary mode is indicated with ‘*’, text mode
with ‘ ’ (space). Binary mode is the default on systems where it’s
significant, otherwise text mode is the default.
Without –zero, and with non legacy output formats, if file contains a
backslash, newline, or carriage return, the line is started with a
backslash, and each problematic character in the file name is escaped
with a backslash, making the output unambiguous even in the presence of
arbitrary file names. Since the backslash character itself is escaped,
any other backslash escape sequences are reserved for future use.
Next: cksum common options, Previous: cksum output modes, Up: cksum:
Print and verify file checksums   [Contents][Index]

6.3.2 cksum general options ¶
‘-a type’ ¶
‘–algorithm=type’
Compute checksums using the specified digest algorithm.
Supported legacy checksums (which are not supported by –check):

Supported more modern digest algorithms are:

The following algorithms are currently considered secure against
malicious tampering, i.e., there is no known way to modify a file to
produce the same checksum:

‘–base64’ ¶
Print base64-encoded digests not hexadecimal. This option is ignored
with –check. The format conforms to RFC 4648#4.
Each base64-encoded digest has zero, one or two trailing padding (‘=’)
bytes. The length of that padding is the checksum-bit-length modulo 3,
and the –check parser requires precisely the same input digest string as
what is output. I.e., removing or adding any ‘=’ padding renders a
digest non-matching.
‘–debug’ ¶
Output extra information to standard error, like the checksum
implementation being used.
‘-l bits’ ¶
‘–length=bits’
Specify the digest size used with -a sha2, sha3, or blake2b. For
‘blake2b’ this is optional, with 512 being the default. If the option is
given it must be a multiple of 8. For ‘sha2’ or ‘sha3’ this option is
required, and the length must be one of 224, 256, 384, or 512.
This option is ignored when –check is specified, as the length is
automatically determined when checking.
‘–raw’ ¶
Print only the unencoded raw binary digest for a single input. Do not
output the file name or anything else. Use network byte order (big
endian) where applicable: for ‘bsd’, ‘crc’, ‘crc32b’, and ‘sysv’. This
option works only with a single input. Unlike other output formats,
cksum provides no way to –check a –raw checksum.
‘–untagged’ ¶
Output using the original Coreutils format used by the other standalone
checksum utilities like md5sum for example. This format has the checksum
at the start of the line, and may be more amenable to further processing
by other utilities, especially in combination with the –zero option.
This does not identify the digest algorithm used for the checksum. See
cksum output modes for details of this format.
Previous: cksum general options, Up: cksum: Print and verify file
checksums   [Contents][Index]

6.3.3 cksum common options ¶
‘-b’ ¶
‘–binary’
Treat each input file as binary, by reading it in binary mode and
outputting a ‘*’ flag. This is the inverse of –text. On systems like GNU
that do not distinguish between binary and text files, this option
merely flags each input mode as binary: the checksum is unaffected. This
option is the default on systems like MS-DOS that distinguish between
binary and text files, except for reading standard input when standard
input is a terminal. This option is deprecated and not documented in
cksum –help. It is only supported by the cksum command to support
emulation of the legacy standalone checksumming utilities.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–check’
Read file names and checksum information (not data) from each file (or
from standard input if no file was specified) and report whether the
checksums match the contents of the named files. The input to this mode
is usually the output of a prior, checksum-generating run of the
command. However the cksum command does not support –check with the
legacy output format from the ‘sysv’, ‘bsd’, ‘crc’ or ‘crc32b’
algorithms.
Three input formats are supported. Either the “untagged” output format,
the “tagged” output format, or the BSD reversed mode format which is
similar to the “untagged” output format but doesn’t use a character to
distinguish binary and text modes. See cksum output modes for details of
these formats.
For the cksum command, the –check option supports auto-detecting the
digest algorithm to use, when presented with checksum information in the
–tag output format.
Also for the cksum command, the –check option auto-detects the digest
encoding, accepting both standard hexadecimal checksums and those
generated via cksum with its –base64 option.
Output with –zero enabled is not supported by –check.
For each such line, cksum reads the named file and computes its
checksum. Then, if the computed message digest does not match the one on
the line with the file name, the file is noted as having failed the
test. Otherwise, the file passes the test. By default, for each valid
line, one line is written to standard output indicating whether the
named file passed the test. After all checks have been performed, if
there were any failures, a warning is issued to standard error. Use the
–status option to inhibit that output. If any listed file cannot be
opened or read, if any valid line has a checksum inconsistent with the
associated file, or if no valid line is found, cksum exits with nonzero
status. Otherwise, it exits successfully.
‘–ignore-missing’ ¶
This option is useful only when verifying checksums. When verifying
checksums, don’t fail or report any status for missing files. This is
useful when verifying a subset of downloaded files given a larger list
of checksums.
‘–quiet’ ¶
This option is useful only when verifying checksums. When verifying
checksums, don’t generate an ’OK’ message per successfully checked file.
Files that fail the verification are reported in the default
one-line-per-file format. If there is any checksum mismatch, print a
warning summarizing the failures to standard error.
‘–status’ ¶
This option is useful only when verifying checksums. When verifying
checksums, don’t generate the default one-line-per-file diagnostic and
don’t output the warning summarizing any failures. Failures to open or
read a file still evoke individual diagnostics to standard error. If all
listed files are readable and are consistent with the associated
checksums, exit successfully. Otherwise exit with a status code
indicating there was a failure.
‘–tag’ ¶
Output BSD style checksums, which indicate the checksum algorithm used.
As a GNU extension, if –zero is not used, file names with problematic
characters are escaped as described above, using the same escaping
indicator of ‘</samp>’ at the start of the line, as used with the other
output format. The –tag option implies binary mode, and is disallowed
with –text mode as supporting that would unnecessarily complicate the
output format, while providing little benefit. See cksum output modes
for details of this format. The cksum command, uses –tag as its default
output format.
‘-t’ ¶
‘–text’
Treat each input file as text, by reading it in text mode and outputting
a ‘ ’ flag. This is the inverse of –binary. This option is the default
on systems like GNU that do not distinguish between binary and text
files. On other systems, it is the default for reading standard input
when standard input is a terminal. This mode is never defaulted to if
–tag is used. This option is deprecated and not documented in cksum
–help. It is only supported by the cksum command to support emulation of
the legacy standalone checksumming utilities.
‘-w’ ¶
‘–warn’
When verifying checksums, warn about improperly formatted checksum
lines. This option is useful only if all but a few lines in the checked
input are valid.
‘–strict’ ¶
When verifying checksums, if one or more input line is invalid, exit
nonzero after all warnings have been issued.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero’
Output a zero byte (ASCII NUL) at the end of each line, rather than a
newline. This option enables other programs to parse the output even
when that output would contain data with embedded newlines. Also file
name escaping is not used.
Next: b2sum: Print or check BLAKE2 digests, Previous: cksum: Print and
verify file checksums, Up: Summarizing files   [Contents][Index]

6.4 md5sum: Print or check MD5 digests ¶

md5sum computes a 128-bit checksum (or fingerprint or message-digest)
for each specified file.
This is a legacy interface to the more modern cksum utility. See cksum:
Print and verify file checksums.
The MD5 digest is more reliable than a simple CRC (provided by the cksum
command) for detecting accidental file corruption, as the chances of
accidentally having two files with identical MD5 are vanishingly small.
However, it should not be considered secure against malicious tampering:
although finding a file with a given MD5 fingerprint is considered
infeasible at the moment, it is known how to modify certain files,
including digital certificates, so that they appear valid when signed
with an MD5 digest. For more secure hashes, consider using ‘sha2’,
‘sha3’, or ‘blake2b’, available through the cksum –algorithm option.
If a file is specified as ‘-’ or if no files are given md5sum computes
the checksum for the standard input. md5sum can also determine whether a
file and checksum are consistent. Synopsis:

md5sum uses the ‘Untagged output format’ for each specified file, as
described at cksum output modes.
The program accepts cksum common options. Also see Common options.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: sha1sum: Print or check SHA-1 digests, Previous: md5sum: Print or
check MD5 digests, Up: Summarizing files   [Contents][Index]

6.5 b2sum: Print or check BLAKE2 digests ¶

b2sum computes a 512-bit checksum for each specified file.
This is a legacy interface to the more modern cksum utility. See cksum:
Print and verify file checksums.
If a file is specified as ‘-’ or if no files are given b2sum computes
the checksum for the standard input. b2sum can also determine whether a
file and checksum are consistent. Synopsis:

b2sum uses the ‘Untagged output format’ for each specified file, as
described at cksum output modes.
The program accepts cksum common options. Also see Common options.
In addition b2sum supports the following options.
‘-l bits’ ¶
‘–length=bits’
Specify the digest size used by the algorithm. This option is optional.
By default a 512 bit digest will be used. If the option is given it must
be a multiple of 8.
This option is ignored when –check is specified, as the length is
automatically determined when checking.
Next: sha2 utilities: Print or check SHA-2 digests, Previous: b2sum:
Print or check BLAKE2 digests, Up: Summarizing files   [Contents][Index]

6.6 sha1sum: Print or check SHA-1 digests ¶

sha1sum computes a 160-bit checksum for each specified file.
This is a legacy interface to the more modern cksum utility. See cksum:
Print and verify file checksums.
The SHA-1 digest is more reliable than a simple CRC (provided by the
cksum command) for detecting accidental file corruption, as the chances
of accidentally having two files with identical SHA-1 are vanishingly
small. However, it should not be considered secure against malicious
tampering: although finding a file with a given SHA-1 fingerprint is
considered infeasible at the moment, it is known how to modify certain
files, including digital certificates, so that they appear valid when
signed with an SHA-1 digest. For more secure hashes, consider using
‘sha2’, ‘sha3’, or ‘blake2b’, available through the cksum –algorithm
option.
If a file is specified as ‘-’ or if no files are given sha1sum computes
the checksum for the standard input. sha1sum can also determine whether
a file and checksum are consistent. Synopsis:

sha1sum uses the ‘Untagged output format’ for each specified file, as
described at cksum output modes.
The program accepts cksum common options. Also see Common options.
Previous: sha1sum: Print or check SHA-1 digests, Up: Summarizing files  
[Contents][Index]

6.7 sha2 utilities: Print or check SHA-2 digests ¶
This is a legacy interface to the more modern cksum utility. See cksum:
Print and verify file checksums.

The commands sha224sum, sha256sum, sha384sum and sha512sum compute
checksums of various lengths (respectively 224, 256, 384 and 512 bits),
collectively known as the SHA-2 hashes.
If a file is specified as ‘-’ or if no files are given sha???sum
computes the checksum for the standard input. sha???sum can also
determine whether a file and checksum are consistent. Synopsis:

sha???sum uses the ‘Untagged output format’ for each specified file, as
described at cksum output modes.
The program accepts cksum common options. Also see Common options.
Next: Operating on fields, Previous: Summarizing files, Up: GNU
Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

7 Operating on sorted files ¶

These commands work with (or produce) sorted files.
sort: Sort text files
shuf: Shuffling text
uniq: Uniquify files
comm: Compare two sorted files line by line
ptx: Produce permuted indexes
tsort: Topological sort
Next: shuf: Shuffling text, Up: Operating on sorted files  
[Contents][Index]

7.1 sort: Sort text files ¶

sort sorts, merges, or compares all the lines from the given files, or
standard input if none are given or for a file of ‘-’. By default, sort
writes the results to standard output. Synopsis:

Many options affect how sort compares lines; if the results are
unexpected, try the –debug option to see what happened. A pair of lines
is compared as follows: sort compares each pair of fields (see –key), in
the order specified on the command line, according to the associated
ordering options, until a difference is found or no fields are left. If
no key fields are specified, sort uses a default key of the entire line.
Finally, as a last resort when all keys compare equal, sort compares
entire lines as if no ordering options other than –reverse (-r) were
specified. The –stable (-s) option disables this last-resort comparison
so that lines in which all fields compare equal are left in their
original relative order. The –unique (-u) option also disables the
last-resort comparison.
Unless otherwise specified, all comparisons use the character collating
sequence specified by the LC_COLLATE locale.1 A line’s trailing newline
is not part of the line for comparison purposes. If the final byte of an
input file is not a newline, GNU sort silently supplies one. GNU sort
(as specified for all GNU utilities) has no limit on input line length
or restrictions on bytes allowed within lines.
sort has three modes of operation: sort (the default), merge, and check
for order. The following options change the operation mode:
‘-c’ ¶
‘–check’
‘–check=diagnose-first’
Check whether the given file is already sorted: if it is not all sorted,
print a diagnostic containing the first out-of-order line and exit with
a status of 1. Otherwise, exit successfully. At most one input file can
be given.
‘-C’ ¶
‘–check=quiet’
‘–check=silent’
Exit successfully if the given file is already sorted, and exit with
status 1 otherwise. At most one input file can be given. This is like
-c, except it does not print a diagnostic.
‘-m’ ¶
‘–merge’
Merge the given files by sorting them as a group. Each input file must
always be individually sorted. It always works to sort instead of merge;
merging is provided because it is faster, in the case where it works.
Exit status:

If the environment variable TMPDIR is set, sort uses its value as the
directory for temporary files instead of /tmp. The –temporary-directory
(-T) option in turn overrides the environment variable.
The following options affect the ordering of output lines. They may be
specified globally or as part of a specific key field. If no key fields
are specified, global options apply to comparison of entire lines;
otherwise the global options are inherited by key fields that do not
specify any special options of their own. In pre-POSIX versions of sort,
global options affect only later key fields, so portable shell scripts
should specify global options first.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–ignore-leading-blanks’
Ignore leading blanks when finding sort keys in each line. By default a
blank is a space or a tab, but the LC_CTYPE locale can change this.
Blanks may be ignored by your locale’s collating rules, but without this
option they will be significant for character positions specified in
keys with the -k option.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–dictionary-order’
Sort in phone directory order: ignore all characters except letters,
digits and blanks when sorting. By default letters and digits are those
of ASCII and a blank is a space or a tab, but the LC_CTYPE locale can
change this.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–ignore-case’
Fold lowercase characters into the equivalent uppercase characters when
comparing so that, for example, ‘b’ and ‘B’ sort as equal. The LC_CTYPE
locale determines character types. When used with –unique those lower
case equivalent lines are thrown away. (There is currently no way to
throw away the upper case equivalent instead. (Any –reverse given would
only affect the final result, after the throwing away.))
‘-g’ ¶
‘–general-numeric-sort’
‘–sort=general-numeric’
Sort numerically, converting a prefix of each line to a long
double-precision floating point number. See Floating point numbers. Do
not report overflow, underflow, or conversion errors. Use the following
collating sequence:
Lines that do not start with numbers (all considered to be equal).
NaNs (“Not a Number” values, in IEEE floating point arithmetic) in a
consistent but machine-dependent order.
Minus infinity.
Finite numbers in ascending numeric order (with -0 and +0 equal).
Plus infinity.
Use this option only if there is no alternative; it is much slower than
–numeric-sort (-n) and it can lose information when converting to
floating point.
You can use this option to sort hexadecimal numbers prefixed with ‘0x’
or ‘0X’, where those numbers are not fixed width, or of varying case.
However for hex numbers of consistent case, and left padded with ‘0’ to
a consistent width, a standard lexicographic sort will be faster.
‘-h’ ¶
‘–human-numeric-sort’
‘–sort=human-numeric’
Sort numerically, first by numeric sign (negative, zero, or positive);
then by SI suffix (either empty, or ‘k’ or ‘K’, or one of ‘MGTPEZYRQ’,
in that order; see Block size); and finally by numeric value. For
example, ‘1023M’ sorts before ‘1G’ because ‘M’ (mega) precedes ‘G’
(giga) as an SI suffix. This option sorts values that are consistently
scaled to the nearest suffix, regardless of whether suffixes denote
powers of 1000 or 1024, and it therefore sorts the output of any single
invocation of the df, du, or ls commands that are invoked with their
–human-readable or –si options. The syntax for numbers is the same as
for the –numeric-sort option; the SI suffix must immediately follow the
number. To sort more accurately, you can use the numfmt command to
reformat numbers to human format after the sort.
‘-i’ ¶
‘–ignore-nonprinting’
Ignore nonprinting characters. The LC_CTYPE locale determines character
types. This option has no effect if the stronger –dictionary-order (-d)
option is also given.
‘-M’ ¶
‘–month-sort’
‘–sort=month’
An initial string, consisting of any amount of blanks, followed by a
month name abbreviation, is folded to UPPER case and compared in the
order ‘JAN’ < ‘FEB’ < … < ‘DEC’. Invalid names compare low to valid
names. The LC_TIME locale category determines the month spellings. By
default a blank is a space or a tab, but the LC_CTYPE locale can change
this.
‘-n’ ¶
‘–numeric-sort’
‘–sort=numeric’
Sort numerically. The number begins each line and consists of optional
blanks, an optional ‘-’ sign, and zero or more digits possibly separated
by thousands separators, optionally followed by a decimal-point
character and zero or more digits. An empty number is treated as ‘0’.
Signs on zeros and leading zeros do not affect ordering.
Comparison is exact; there is no rounding error.
The LC_CTYPE locale specifies which characters are blanks and the
LC_NUMERIC locale specifies the thousands separator and decimal-point
character. In the C locale, spaces and tabs are blanks, there is no
thousands separator, and ‘.’ is the decimal point.
Neither a leading ‘+’ nor exponential notation is recognized. To compare
such strings numerically, use the –general-numeric-sort (-g) option.
‘-V’ ¶
‘–version-sort’
‘–sort=version’
Sort by version name and number. It behaves like a standard sort, except
that each sequence of decimal digits is treated numerically as an
index/version number. (See Version sort ordering.)
‘-r’ ¶
‘–reverse’
Reverse the result of comparison, so that lines with greater key values
appear earlier in the output instead of later.
‘-R’ ¶
‘–random-sort’
‘–sort=random’
Sort by hashing the input keys and then sorting the hash values. Choose
the hash function at random, ensuring that it is free of collisions so
that differing keys have differing hash values. This is like a random
permutation of the inputs (see shuf: Shuffling text), except that keys
with the same value sort together.
If multiple random sort fields are specified, the same random hash
function is used for all fields. To use different random hash functions
for different fields, you can invoke sort more than once.
The choice of hash function is affected by the –random-source option.
Other options are:
‘–compress-program prog’ ¶
Compress any temporary files with the program prog.
With no arguments, prog must compress standard input to standard output,
and when given the -d option it must decompress standard input to
standard output.
Terminate with an error if prog exits with nonzero status.
If prog cannot be invoked, sort will write a warning message to standard
error and continue without compressing temporary files.
White space and the backslash character should not appear in prog; they
are reserved for future use.
‘–files0-from=file’ ¶
Disallow processing files named on the command line, and instead process
those named in file file; each name being terminated by a zero byte
(ASCII NUL). This is useful when the list of file names is so long that
it may exceed a command line length limitation. In such cases, running
sort via xargs is undesirable because it splits the list into pieces and
makes sort print sorted output for each sublist rather than for the
entire list. One way to produce a list of ASCII NUL terminated file
names is with GNU find, using its -print0 predicate. If file is ‘-’ then
the ASCII NUL terminated file names are read from standard input.
‘-k pos1[,pos2]’ ¶
‘–key=pos1[,pos2]’
Specify a sort field that consists of the part of the line between pos1
and pos2 (or the end of the line, if pos2 is omitted), inclusive.
In its simplest form pos specifies a field number (starting with 1),
with fields being separated by runs of blank characters, and by default
those blanks being included in the comparison at the start of each
field. To adjust the handling of blank characters see the -b and -t
options.
More generally, each pos has the form ‘f[.c][opts]’, where f is the
number of the field to use, and c is the number of the first character
from the beginning of the field. Fields and character positions are
numbered starting with 1; a character position of zero in pos2 indicates
the field’s last character. If ‘.c’ is omitted from pos1, it defaults to
1 (the beginning of the field); if omitted from pos2, it defaults to 0
(the end of the field). opts are ordering options, allowing individual
keys to be sorted according to different rules; see below for details.
Keys can span multiple fields.
Example: To sort on the second field, use –key=2,2 (-k 2,2). See below
for more notes on keys and more examples. See also the –debug option to
help determine the part of the line being used in the sort.
‘–debug’ ¶
Highlight the portion of each line used for sorting. Also issue warnings
about questionable usage to standard error.
‘–batch-size=nmerge’ ¶
Merge at most nmerge inputs at once.
When sort has to merge more than nmerge inputs, it merges them in groups
of nmerge, saving the result in a temporary file, which is then used as
an input in a subsequent merge.
A large value of nmerge may improve merge performance and decrease
temporary storage utilization at the expense of increased memory usage
and I/O. Conversely a small value of nmerge may reduce memory
requirements and I/O at the expense of temporary storage consumption and
merge performance.
The value of nmerge must be at least 2. The default value is currently
16, but this is implementation-dependent and may change in the future.
The value of nmerge may be bounded by a resource limit for open file
descriptors. The commands ‘ulimit -n’ or ‘getconf OPEN_MAX’ may display
limits for your systems; these limits may be modified further if your
program already has some files open, or if the operating system has
other limits on the number of open files. If the value of nmerge exceeds
the resource limit, sort silently uses a smaller value.
‘-o output-file’ ¶
‘–output=output-file’
Write output to output-file instead of standard output. Normally, sort
reads all input before opening output-file, so you can sort a file in
place by using commands like sort -o F F and cat F | sort -o F. However,
it is often safer to output to an otherwise-unused file, as data may be
lost if the system crashes or sort encounters an I/O or other serious
error while a file is being sorted in place. Also, sort with –merge (-m)
can open the output file before reading all input, so a command like cat
F | sort -m -o F - G is not safe as sort might start writing F before
cat is done reading it.
On newer systems, -o cannot appear after an input file if
POSIXLY_CORRECT is set, e.g., ‘sort F -o F’. Portable scripts should
specify -o output-file before any input files.
‘–random-source=file’ ¶
Use file as a source of random data used to determine which random hash
function to use with the -R option. See Sources of random data.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–stable’
Make sort stable by disabling its last-resort comparison. This option
has no effect if no fields or global ordering options other than
–reverse (-r) are specified.
‘-S size’ ¶
‘–buffer-size=size’
Use a main-memory sort buffer of the given size. By default, size is in
units of 1024 bytes. Appending ‘%’ causes size to be interpreted as a
percentage of physical memory. Appending ‘K’ multiplies size by 1024
(the default), ‘M’ by 1,048,576, ‘G’ by 1,073,741,824, and so on for
‘T’, ‘P’, ‘E’, ‘Z’, ‘Y’, ‘R’, and ‘Q’. Appending ‘b’ causes size to be
interpreted as a byte count, with no multiplication.
This option can improve the performance of sort by causing it to start
with a larger or smaller sort buffer than the default. However, this
option affects only the initial buffer size. The buffer grows beyond
size if sort encounters input lines larger than size.
‘-t separator’ ¶
‘–field-separator=separator’
Use character separator as the field separator when finding the sort
keys in each line. By default, fields are separated by the empty string
between a non-blank character and a blank character. By default a blank
is a space or a tab, but the LC_CTYPE locale can change this.
That is, given the input line ‘ foo bar’, sort breaks it into fields
‘ foo’ and ‘ bar’. The field separator is not considered to be part of
either the field preceding or the field following, so with ‘sort -t " "’
the same input line has three fields: an empty field, ‘foo’, and ‘bar’.
However, fields that extend to the end of the line, as -k 2, or fields
consisting of a range, as -k 2,3, retain the field separators present
between the endpoints of the range.
To specify ASCII NUL as the field separator, use the two-character
string ‘\0’, e.g., ‘sort -t ‘\0’’.
‘-T tempdir’ ¶
‘–temporary-directory=tempdir’
Use directory tempdir to store temporary files, overriding the TMPDIR
environment variable. If this option is given more than once, temporary
files are stored in all the directories given. If you have a large sort
or merge that is I/O-bound, you can often improve performance by using
this option to specify directories on different file systems.
‘–parallel=n’ ¶
Set the number of sorts run in parallel to n. By default, n is set to
the number of available processors, but limited to 8, as performance
gains diminish after that. Using n threads increases the memory usage by
a factor of log n. Also see nproc: Print the number of available
processors.
‘-u’ ¶
‘–unique’
Normally, output only the first of a sequence of lines that compare
equal. For the –check (-c or -C) option, check that no pair of
consecutive lines compares equal.
This option also disables the default last-resort comparison.
The commands sort -u and sort | uniq are equivalent, but this
equivalence does not extend to arbitrary sort options. For example, sort
-n -u inspects only the value of the initial numeric string when
checking for uniqueness, whereas sort -n | uniq inspects the entire
line. See uniq: Uniquify files.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero-terminated’
Delimit items with a zero byte rather than a newline (ASCII LF). I.e.,
treat input as items separated by ASCII NUL and terminate output items
with ASCII NUL. This option can be useful in conjunction with ‘perl -0’
or ‘find -print0’ and ‘xargs -0’ which do the same in order to reliably
handle arbitrary file names (even those containing blanks or other
special characters).
Historical (BSD and System V) implementations of sort have differed in
their interpretation of some options, particularly -b, -f, and -n. GNU
sort follows the POSIX behavior, which is usually (but not always!) like
the System V behavior. According to POSIX, -n no longer implies -b. For
consistency, -M has been changed in the same way. This may affect the
meaning of character positions in field specifications in obscure cases.
The only fix is to add an explicit -b.
A position in a sort field specified with -k may have any of the option
letters ‘MbdfghinRrV’ appended to it, in which case no global ordering
options are inherited by that particular field. The -b option may be
independently attached to either or both of the start and end positions
of a field specification, and if it is inherited from the global options
it will be attached to both. If input lines can contain leading or
adjacent blanks and -t is not used, then -k is typically combined with
-b or an option that implicitly ignores leading blanks (‘Mghn’) as
otherwise the varying numbers of leading blanks in fields can cause
confusing results.
If the start position in a sort field specifier falls after the end of
the line or after the end field, the field is empty. If the -b option
was specified, the ‘.c’ part of a field specification is counted from
the first nonblank character of the field.
On systems not conforming to POSIX 1003.1-2001, sort supports a
traditional origin-zero syntax ‘+pos1 [-pos2]’ for specifying sort keys.
The traditional command ‘sort +a.x -b.y’ is equivalent to ‘sort -k
a+1.x+1,b’ if y is ‘0’ or absent, otherwise it is equivalent to ‘sort -k
a+1.x+1,b+1.y’.
This traditional behavior can be controlled with the _POSIX2_VERSION
environment variable (see Standards conformance); it can also be enabled
when POSIXLY_CORRECT is not set by using the traditional syntax with
‘-pos2’ present.
Scripts intended for use on standard hosts should avoid traditional
syntax and should use -k instead. For example, avoid ‘sort +2’, since it
might be interpreted as either ‘sort ./+2’ or ‘sort -k 3’. If your
script must also run on hosts that support only the traditional syntax,
it can use a test like ‘if sort -k 1 </dev/null >/dev/null 2>&1; then …’
to decide which syntax to use.
Here are some examples to illustrate various combinations of options.
Sort in descending (reverse) numeric order.

Run no more than 4 sorts concurrently, using a buffer size of 10M.

Sort alphabetically, omitting the first and second fields and the blanks
at the start of the third field. This uses a single key composed of the
characters beginning at the start of the first nonblank character in
field three and extending to the end of each line.

Sort numerically on the second field and resolve ties by sorting
alphabetically on the third and fourth characters of field five. Use ‘:’
as the field delimiter.

If you had written -k 2n instead of -k 2,2n sort would have used all
characters beginning in the second field and extending to the end of the
line as the primary numeric key. For the large majority of applications,
treating keys spanning more than one field as numeric will not do what
you expect.
Also, the ‘n’ modifier was applied to the field-end specifier for the
first key. It would have been equivalent to specify -k 2n,2 or -k 2n,2n.
All modifiers except ‘b’ apply to the associated field, regardless of
whether the modifier character is attached to the field-start and/or the
field-end part of the key specifier.
Sort the password file on the fifth field and ignore any leading blanks.
Sort lines with equal values in field five on the numeric user ID in
field three. Fields are separated by ‘:’.

These three commands have equivalent effect. The first specifies that
the first key’s start position ignores leading blanks and the second key
is sorted numerically. The other two commands rely on global options
being inherited by sort keys that lack modifiers. The inheritance works
in this case because -k 5b,5b and -k 5b,5 are equivalent, as the
location of a field-end lacking a ‘.c’ character position is not
affected by whether initial blanks are skipped.
Sort a set of log files, primarily by IPv4 address and secondarily by
timestamp. If two lines’ primary and secondary keys are identical,
output the lines in the same order that they were input. The log files
contain lines that look like this:

Fields are separated by exactly one space. Sort IPv4 addresses
lexicographically, e.g., 212.61.52.2 sorts before 212.129.233.201
because 61 is less than 129.

This example cannot be done with a single POSIX sort invocation, since
IPv4 address components are separated by ‘.’ while dates come just after
a space. So it is broken down into two invocations of sort: the first
sorts by timestamp and the second by IPv4 address. The timestamp is
sorted by year, then month, then day, and finally by hour-minute-second
field, using -k to isolate each field. Except for hour-minute-second
there’s no need to specify the end of each key field, since the ‘n’ and
‘M’ modifiers sort based on leading prefixes that cannot cross field
boundaries. The IPv4 addresses are sorted lexicographically. The second
sort uses ‘-s’ so that ties in the primary key are broken by the
secondary key; the first sort uses ‘-s’ so that the combination of the
two sorts is stable. As a GNU extension, the above example could be
achieved in a single sort invocation by sorting the IPv4 address field
using a ‘V’ version type, like ‘-k1,1V’.
Generate a tags file in case-insensitive sorted order.

The use of -print0, -z, and -0 in this case means that file names that
contain blanks or other special characters are not broken up by the sort
operation.
Use the common DSU, Decorate Sort Undecorate idiom to sort lines
according to their length.

In general this technique can be used to sort data that the sort command
does not support, or is inefficient at, sorting directly.
Use the same DSU idiom as above to sort lines by their last field, and
in this specific example the presented lines are users’ full names.

Shuffle a list of directories, but preserve the order of files within
each directory. For instance, one could use this to generate a music
playlist in which albums are shuffled but the songs of each album are
played in order.

Next: uniq: Uniquify files, Previous: sort: Sort text files, Up:
Operating on sorted files   [Contents][Index]

7.2 shuf: Shuffling text ¶

shuf shuffles its input by outputting a random permutation of its input
lines. Each output permutation is equally likely. Synopses:

shuf has three modes of operation that affect where it obtains its input
lines. By default, it reads lines from standard input. The following
options change the operation mode:
‘-e’ ¶
‘–echo’
Treat each command-line operand as an input line.
‘-i lo-hi’ ¶
‘–input-range=lo-hi’
Act as if input came from a file containing the range of unsigned
decimal integers lo…hi, one per line.
shuf’s other options can affect its behavior in all operation modes:
‘-n count’ ¶
‘–head-count=count’
Output at most count lines. By default, all input lines are output.
‘-o output-file’ ¶
‘–output=output-file’
Write output to output-file instead of standard output. shuf reads all
input before opening output-file, so you can safely shuffle a file in
place by using commands like shuf -o F <F and cat F | shuf -o F.
‘–random-source=file’ ¶
Use file as a source of random data used to determine which permutation
to generate. See Sources of random data.
‘-r’ ¶
‘–repeat’
Repeat output values, that is, select with replacement. With this option
the output is not a permutation of the input; instead, each output line
is randomly chosen from all the inputs. This option is typically
combined with –head-count; if –head-count is not given, shuf repeats
indefinitely.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero-terminated’
Delimit items with a zero byte rather than a newline (ASCII LF). I.e.,
treat input as items separated by ASCII NUL and terminate output items
with ASCII NUL. This option can be useful in conjunction with ‘perl -0’
or ‘find -print0’ and ‘xargs -0’ which do the same in order to reliably
handle arbitrary file names (even those containing blanks or other
special characters).
For example:

might produce the output

Similarly, the command:

might output:

and the command ‘shuf -i 1-4’ might output:

The above examples all have four input lines, so shuf might produce any
of the twenty-four possible permutations of the input. In general, if
there are n input lines, there are n! (i.e., n factorial, or n *
(n - 1) * … * 1) possible output permutations.
To output 50 random numbers each in the range 0 through 9, use:

To simulate 100 coin flips, use:

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: comm: Compare two sorted files line by line, Previous: shuf:
Shuffling text, Up: Operating on sorted files   [Contents][Index]

7.3 uniq: Uniquify files ¶

uniq writes the unique lines in the given input, or standard input if
nothing is given or for an input name of ‘-’. Synopsis:

By default, uniq prints its input lines, except that it discards all but
the first of adjacent repeated lines, so that no output lines are
repeated. Optionally, it can instead discard lines that are not
repeated, or all repeated lines.
The input need not be sorted, but repeated input lines are detected only
if they are adjacent. If you want to discard non-adjacent duplicate
lines, perhaps you want to use sort -u. See sort: Sort text files.
Comparisons honor the rules specified by the LC_COLLATE locale category.
If no output file is specified, uniq writes to standard output.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-f n’ ¶
‘–skip-fields=n’
Skip n fields on each line before checking for uniqueness. Use a null
string for comparison if a line has fewer than n fields. Fields are a
sequence of blank characters followed by non-blank characters. Field
numbers are one based, i.e., -f 1 will skip the first field (which may
optionally have leading blanks).
For compatibility uniq supports a traditional option syntax -n. New
scripts should use -f n instead.
‘-s n’ ¶
‘–skip-chars=n’
Skip n characters before checking for uniqueness. Use a null string for
comparison if a line has fewer than n characters. If you use both the
field and character skipping options, fields are skipped over first.
On systems not conforming to POSIX 1003.1-2001, uniq supports a
traditional option syntax +n. Although this traditional behavior can be
controlled with the _POSIX2_VERSION environment variable (see Standards
conformance), portable scripts should avoid commands whose behavior
depends on this variable. For example, use ‘uniq ./+10’ or ‘uniq -s 10’
rather than the ambiguous ‘uniq +10’.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–count’
Print the number of times each line occurred along with the line.
‘-i’ ¶
‘–ignore-case’
Ignore differences in case when comparing lines.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–repeated’
Discard lines that are not repeated. When used by itself, this option
causes uniq to print the first copy of each repeated line, and nothing
else.
‘-D’ ¶
‘–all-repeated[=delimit-method]’
Do not discard the second and subsequent repeated input lines, but
discard lines that are not repeated. This option is useful mainly in
conjunction with other options e.g., to ignore case or to compare only
selected fields. The optional delimit-method, supported with the long
form option, specifies how to delimit groups of repeated lines, and must
be one of the following:
‘none’
Do not delimit groups of repeated lines. This is equivalent to
–all-repeated (-D).
‘prepend’
Output a newline before each group of repeated lines. With
–zero-terminated (-z), use a zero byte (ASCII NUL) instead of a newline
as the delimiter.
‘separate’
Separate groups of repeated lines with a single newline. This is the
same as using ‘prepend’, except that no delimiter is inserted before the
first group, and hence may be better suited for output direct to users.
With –zero-terminated (-z), use a zero byte (ASCII NUL) instead of a
newline as the delimiter.
Output is ambiguous when groups are delimited and the input stream
contains empty lines. To avoid that, filter the input through ‘tr -s ‘’’
to remove blank lines.
This is a GNU extension.
‘–group[=delimit-method]’ ¶
Output all lines, and delimit each unique group. With –zero-terminated
(-z), use a zero byte (ASCII NUL) instead of a newline as the delimiter.
The optional delimit-method specifies how to delimit groups, and must be
one of the following:
‘separate’
Separate unique groups with a single delimiter. This is the default
delimiting method if none is specified, and better suited for output
direct to users.
‘prepend’
Output a delimiter before each group of unique items.
‘append’
Output a delimiter after each group of unique items.
‘both’
Output a delimiter around each group of unique items.
Output is ambiguous when groups are delimited and the input stream
contains empty lines. To avoid that, filter the input through ‘tr -s ‘’’
to remove blank lines.
This is a GNU extension.
‘-u’ ¶
‘–unique’
Discard the last line that would be output for a repeated input group.
When used by itself, this option causes uniq to print unique lines, and
nothing else.
‘-w n’ ¶
‘–check-chars=n’
Compare at most n characters on each line (after skipping any specified
fields and characters). By default the entire rest of the lines are
compared.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero-terminated’
Delimit items with a zero byte rather than a newline (ASCII LF). I.e.,
treat input as items separated by ASCII NUL and terminate output items
with ASCII NUL. This option can be useful in conjunction with ‘perl -0’
or ‘find -print0’ and ‘xargs -0’ which do the same in order to reliably
handle arbitrary file names (even those containing blanks or other
special characters). With -z the newline character is treated as a field
separator.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: ptx: Produce permuted indexes, Previous: uniq: Uniquify files, Up:
Operating on sorted files   [Contents][Index]

7.4 comm: Compare two sorted files line by line ¶

comm writes to standard output lines that are common, and lines that are
unique, to two input files; a file name of ‘-’ means standard input.
Synopsis:

Before comm can be used, the input files must be sorted using the
collating sequence specified by the LC_COLLATE locale. If an input file
ends in a non-newline character, a newline is silently appended. The
sort command with no options always outputs a file that is suitable
input to comm.
With no options, comm produces three-column output. Column one contains
lines unique to file1, column two contains lines unique to file2, and
column three contains lines common to both files. Columns are separated
by a single TAB character.
The options -1, -2, and -3 suppress printing of the corresponding
columns (and separators). Also see Common options.
Unlike some other comparison utilities, comm has an exit status that
does not depend on the result of the comparison. Upon normal completion
comm produces an exit code of zero. If there is an error it exits with
nonzero status.
If the –check-order option is given, unsorted inputs will cause a fatal
error message. If the option –nocheck-order is given, unsorted inputs
will never cause an error message. If neither of these options is given,
wrongly sorted inputs are diagnosed only if an input file is found to
contain unpairable lines. If an input file is diagnosed as being
unsorted, the comm command will exit with a nonzero status (and the
output should not be used).
Forcing comm to process wrongly sorted input files containing unpairable
lines by specifying –nocheck-order is not guaranteed to produce any
particular output. The output will probably not correspond with whatever
you hoped it would be.
‘–check-order’ ¶
Fail with an error message if either input file is wrongly ordered.
‘–nocheck-order’ ¶
Do not check that both input files are in sorted order.
Other options are:
‘–output-delimiter=str’ ¶
Print str between adjacent output columns, rather than the default of a
single TAB character.
The delimiter str may be empty, in which case the ASCII NUL character is
used to delimit output columns.
‘–total’ ¶
Output a summary at the end.
Similar to the regular output, column one contains the total number of
lines unique to file1, column two contains the total number of lines
unique to file2, and column three contains the total number of lines
common to both files, followed by the word ‘total’ in the additional
column four.
In the following example, comm omits the regular output (-123), thus
just printing the summary:

This option is a GNU extension. Portable scripts should use wc to get
the totals, e.g. for the above example files:

‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero-terminated’
Delimit items with a zero byte rather than a newline (ASCII LF). I.e.,
treat input as items separated by ASCII NUL and terminate output items
with ASCII NUL. This option can be useful in conjunction with ‘perl -0’
or ‘find -print0’ and ‘xargs -0’ which do the same in order to reliably
handle arbitrary file names (even those containing blanks or other
special characters).
Next: tsort: Topological sort, Previous: comm: Compare two sorted files
line by line, Up: Operating on sorted files   [Contents][Index]

7.5 ptx: Produce permuted indexes ¶

ptx reads a text file and essentially produces a permuted index, with
each keyword in its context. The calling sketch is either one of:

The -G (or its equivalent: –traditional) option disables all GNU
extensions and reverts to traditional mode, thus introducing some
limitations and changing several of the program’s default option values.
When -G is not specified, GNU extensions are always enabled. GNU
extensions to ptx are documented wherever appropriate in this document.
See The GNU extensions to ptx, for the full list.
Individual options are explained in the following sections.
When GNU extensions are enabled, there may be zero, one or several files
after the options. If there is no file, the program reads the standard
input. If there is one or several files, they give the name of input
files which are all read in turn, as if all the input files were
concatenated. However, there is a full contextual break between each
file and, when automatic referencing is requested, file names and line
numbers refer to individual text input files. In all cases, the program
outputs the permuted index to the standard output.
When GNU extensions are not enabled, that is, when the program operates
in traditional mode, there may be zero, one or two parameters besides
the options. If there are no parameters, the program reads the standard
input and outputs the permuted index to the standard output. If there is
only one parameter, it names the text input to be read instead of the
standard input. If two parameters are given, they give respectively the
name of the input file to read and the name of the output file to
produce. Be very careful: in this case, the contents of file given by
the second parameter is destroyed. This behavior is dictated by System V
ptx compatibility; GNU Standards normally discourage output parameters
not introduced by an option.
For any file named as the value of an option or as an input text file, a
single dash ‘-’ may be used, in which case standard input is assumed.
However, it would not make sense to use this convention more than once
per program invocation.
General options
Charset selection
Word selection and input processing
Output formatting
The GNU extensions to ptx
Next: Charset selection, Up: ptx: Produce permuted indexes  
[Contents][Index]

7.5.1 General options ¶
‘-G’ ¶
‘–traditional’
As already explained, this option disables all GNU extensions to ptx and
switches to traditional mode.
‘–help’
Print a short help on standard output, then exit without further
processing.
‘–version’
Print the program version on standard output, then exit without further
processing.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: Word selection and input processing, Previous: General options,
Up: ptx: Produce permuted indexes   [Contents][Index]

7.5.2 Charset selection ¶
As it is set up now, ptx assumes that the input file is coded using
8-bit characters, and it may not work well in multibyte locales. In a
single-byte locale, the default regular expression for a keyword allows
foreign or diacriticized letters. Keyword sorting, however, is still
crude; it obeys the underlying character set ordering quite blindly.
The output of ptx assumes the locale’s character encoding. For example,
with ptx’s -T option, if the locale uses the Latin-1 encoding you may
need a LaTeX directive like ‘
’ to render non-ASCII characters correctly.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–ignore-case’
Fold lower case letters to upper case for sorting.
Next: Output formatting, Previous: Charset selection, Up: ptx: Produce
permuted indexes   [Contents][Index]

7.5.3 Word selection and input processing ¶
‘-b file’ ¶
‘–break-file=file’
This option provides an alternative (to -W) method of describing which
characters make up words. It introduces the name of a file which
contains a list of characters which cannot be part of one word; this
file is called the Break file. Any character which is not part of the
Break file is a word constituent. If both options -b and -W are
specified, then -W has precedence and -b is ignored.
When GNU extensions are enabled, the only way to avoid newline as a
break character is to write all the break characters in the file with no
newline at all, not even at the end of the file. When GNU extensions are
disabled, spaces, tabs and newlines are always considered as break
characters even if not included in the Break file.
‘-i file’ ¶
‘–ignore-file=file’
The file associated with this option contains a list of words which will
never be taken as keywords in concordance output. It is called the
Ignore file. The file contains exactly one word in each line; the end of
line separation of words is not subject to the value of the -S option.
‘-o file’ ¶
‘–only-file=file’
The file associated with this option contains a list of words which will
be retained in concordance output; any word not mentioned in this file
is ignored. The file is called the Only file. The file contains exactly
one word in each line; the end of line separation of words is not
subject to the value of the -S option.
There is no default for the Only file. When both an Only file and an
Ignore file are specified, a word is considered a keyword only if it is
listed in the Only file and not in the Ignore file.
‘-r’ ¶
‘–references’
On each input line, the leading sequence of non-white space characters
will be taken to be a reference that has the purpose of identifying this
input line in the resulting permuted index. See Output formatting, for
more information about reference production. Using this option changes
the default value for option -S.
Using this option, the program does not try very hard to remove
references from contexts in output, but it succeeds in doing so when the
context ends exactly at the newline. If option -r is used with -S
default value, or when GNU extensions are disabled, this condition is
always met and references are completely excluded from the output
contexts.
‘-S regexp’ ¶
‘–sentence-regexp=regexp’
This option selects which regular expression will describe the end of a
line or the end of a sentence. In fact, this regular expression is not
the only distinction between end of lines or end of sentences, and input
line boundaries have no special significance outside this option. By
default, when GNU extensions are enabled and if -r option is not used,
end of sentences are used. In this case, this regexp is imported from
GNU Emacs:

Whenever GNU extensions are disabled or if -r option is used, end of
lines are used; in this case, the default regexp is just:

Using an empty regexp is equivalent to completely disabling end of line
or end of sentence recognition. In this case, the whole file is
considered to be a single big line or sentence. The user might want to
disallow all truncation flag generation as well, through option -F "".
See Syntax of Regular Expressions in The GNU Emacs Manual.
When the keywords happen to be near the beginning of the input line or
sentence, this often creates an unused area at the beginning of the
output context line; when the keywords happen to be near the end of the
input line or sentence, this often creates an unused area at the end of
the output context line. The program tries to fill those unused areas by
wrapping around context in them; the tail of the input line or sentence
is used to fill the unused area on the left of the output line; the head
of the input line or sentence is used to fill the unused area on the
right of the output line.
As a matter of convenience to the user, many usual backslashed escape
sequences from the C language are recognized and converted to the
corresponding characters by ptx itself.
‘-W regexp’ ¶
‘–word-regexp=regexp’
This option selects which regular expression will describe each keyword.
By default, if GNU extensions are enabled, a word is a sequence of
letters; the regexp used is ‘+’. When GNU extensions are disabled, a
word is by default anything which ends with a space, a tab or a newline;
the regexp used is ‘[^ ]+’.
An empty regexp is equivalent to not using this option. See Syntax of
Regular Expressions in The GNU Emacs Manual.
As a matter of convenience to the user, many usual backslashed escape
sequences, as found in the C language, are recognized and converted to
the corresponding characters by ptx itself.
Next: The GNU extensions to ptx, Previous: Word selection and input
processing, Up: ptx: Produce permuted indexes   [Contents][Index]

7.5.4 Output formatting ¶
Output format is mainly controlled by the -O and -T options described in
the table below. When neither -O nor -T are selected, and if GNU
extensions are enabled, the program chooses an output format suitable
for a dumb terminal. Each keyword occurrence is output to the center of
one line, surrounded by its left and right contexts. Each field is
properly justified, so the concordance output can be readily observed.
As a special feature, if automatic references are selected by option -A
and are output before the left context, that is, if option -R is not
selected, then a colon is added after the reference; this nicely
interfaces with GNU Emacs next-error processing. In this default output
format, each white space character, like newline and tab, is merely
changed to exactly one space, with no special attempt to compress
consecutive spaces. This might change in the future. Except for those
white space characters, every other character of the underlying set of
256 characters is transmitted verbatim.
Output format is further controlled by the following options.
‘-g number’ ¶
‘–gap-size=number’
Select the size of the minimum white space gap between the fields on the
output line.
‘-t’ ¶
‘–typeset-mode’
Prepare the output for a phototypesetter. I.e., change the default
output width from 72 to 100 columns. This is equivalent to –width=100.
‘-w number’ ¶
‘–width=number’
Select the maximum output width of each final line. If references are
used, they are included or excluded from the maximum output width
depending on the value of option -R. If this option is not selected,
that is, when references are output before the left context, the maximum
output width takes into account the maximum length of all references. If
this option is selected, that is, when references are output after the
right context, the maximum output width does not take into account the
space taken by references, nor the gap that precedes them.
‘-A’ ¶
‘–auto-reference’
Select automatic references. Each input line will have an automatic
reference made up of the file name and the line ordinal, with a single
colon between them. However, the file name will be empty when standard
input is being read. If both -A and -r are selected, then the input
reference is still read and skipped, but the automatic reference is used
at output time, overriding the input reference.
‘-R’ ¶
‘–right-side-refs’
In the default output format, when option -R is not used, any references
produced by the effect of options -r or -A are placed to the far right
of output lines, after the right context. With default output format,
when the -R option is specified, references are rather placed at the
beginning of each output line, before the left context. For any other
output format, option -R is ignored, with one exception: with -R the
width of references is not taken into account in total output width
given by -w.
This option is automatically selected whenever GNU extensions are
disabled.
‘-F string’ ¶
‘–flag-truncation=string’
This option will request that any truncation in the output be reported
using the string string. Most output fields theoretically extend towards
the beginning or the end of the current line, or current sentence, as
selected with option -S. But there is a maximum allowed output line
width, changeable through option -w, which is further divided into space
for various output fields. When a field has to be truncated because it
cannot extend beyond the beginning or the end of the current line to fit
in, then a truncation occurs. By default, the string used is a single
slash, as in -F /.
string may have more than one character, as in -F …. Also, in the
particular case when string is empty (-F ""), truncation flagging is
disabled, and no truncation marks are appended in this case.
As a matter of convenience to the user, many usual backslashed escape
sequences, as found in the C language, are recognized and converted to
the corresponding characters by ptx itself.
‘-M string’ ¶
‘–macro-name=string’
Select another string to be used instead of ‘xx’, while generating
output suitable for nroff, troff or TeX.
‘-O’ ¶
‘–format=roff’
Choose an output format suitable for nroff or troff processing. Each
output line will look like:

so it will be possible to write a ‘.xx’ roff macro to take care of the
output typesetting. This is the default output format when GNU
extensions are disabled. Option -M can be used to change ‘xx’ to another
macro name.
In this output format, each non-graphical character, like newline and
tab, is merely changed to exactly one space, with no special attempt to
compress consecutive spaces. Each quote character ‘"’ is doubled so it
will be correctly processed by nroff or troff.
‘-T’ ¶
‘–format=tex’
Choose an output format suitable for TeX processing. Each output line
will look like:

so it will be possible to write a definition to take care of the output
typesetting. When references are not being produced, that is, neither
option -A nor option -r is selected, the last parameter of each call is
inhibited. Option -M can be used to change ‘xx’ to another macro name.
In this output format, some special characters, like ‘$’, ‘%’, ‘&’, ‘#’
and ‘_’ are automatically protected with a backslash. Curly brackets
‘{’, ‘}’ are protected with a backslash and a pair of dollar signs (to
force mathematical mode). The backslash itself produces the sequence .
Circumflex and tilde diacritical marks produce the sequence ^{ } and ~{
} respectively. Other diacriticized characters of the underlying
character set produce an appropriate TeX sequence as far as possible.
The other non-graphical characters, like newline and tab, and all other
characters which are not part of ASCII, are merely changed to exactly
one space, with no special attempt to compress consecutive spaces. Let
me know how to improve this special character processing for TeX.
Previous: Output formatting, Up: ptx: Produce permuted indexes  
[Contents][Index]

7.5.5 The GNU extensions to ptx ¶
This version of ptx contains a few features which do not exist in System
V ptx. These extra features are suppressed by using the -G command line
option, unless overridden by other command line options. Some GNU
extensions cannot be recovered by overriding, so the simple rule is to
avoid -G if you care about GNU extensions. Here are the differences
between this program and System V ptx.
This program can read many input files at once, it always writes the
resulting concordance on standard output. On the other hand, System V
ptx reads only one file and sends the result to standard output or, if a
second file parameter is given on the command, to that file.

Having output parameters not introduced by options is a dangerous
practice which GNU avoids as far as possible. So, for using ptx portably
between GNU and System V, you should always use it with a single input
file, and always expect the result on standard output. You might also
want to automatically configure in a -G option to ptx calls in products
using ptx, if the configurator finds that the installed ptx accepts -G.
The only options available in System V ptx are options -b, -f, -g, -i,
-o, -r, -t and -w. All other options are GNU extensions and are not
repeated in this enumeration. Moreover, some options have a slightly
different meaning when GNU extensions are enabled, as explained below.

By default, concordance output is not formatted for troff or nroff. It
is rather formatted for a dumb terminal. troff or nroff output may still
be selected through option -O.

Unless -R option is used, the maximum reference width is subtracted from
the total output line width. With GNU extensions disabled, width of
references is not taken into account in the output line width
computations.

All 256 bytes, even ASCII NUL bytes, are always read and processed from
input file with no adverse effect, even if GNU extensions are disabled.
However, System V ptx does not accept 8-bit characters, a few control
characters are rejected, and the tilde ‘~’ is also rejected.

Input line length is only limited by available memory, even if GNU
extensions are disabled. However, System V ptx processes only the first
200 characters in each line.

The break (non-word) characters default to be every character except all
letters of the underlying character set, diacriticized or not. When GNU
extensions are disabled, the break characters default to space, tab and
newline only.

The program makes better use of output line width. If GNU extensions are
disabled, the program rather tries to imitate System V ptx, but still,
there are some slight disposition glitches this program does not
completely reproduce.

The user can specify both an Ignore file and an Only file. This is not
allowed with System V ptx.

Previous: ptx: Produce permuted indexes, Up: Operating on sorted files  
[Contents][Index]

7.6 tsort: Topological sort ¶

tsort performs a topological sort on the given file, or standard input
if no input file is given or for a file of ‘-’. For more details and
some history, see tsort: Background. Synopsis:

tsort reads its input as pairs of strings, separated by blanks,
indicating a partial ordering. The output is a total ordering that
corresponds to the given partial ordering.
For example

will produce the output

Consider a more realistic example. You have a large set of functions all
in one file, and they may all be declared static except one. Currently
that one (say main) is the first function defined in the file, and the
ones it calls directly follow it, followed by those they call, etc.
Let’s say that you are determined to take advantage of prototypes, so
you have to choose between declaring all of those functions (which means
duplicating a lot of information from the definitions) and rearranging
the functions so that as many as possible are defined before they are
used. One way to automate the latter process is to get a list for each
function of the functions it calls directly. Many programs can generate
such lists. They describe a call graph. Consider the following list, in
which a given line indicates that the function on the left calls the one
on the right directly.

then you can use tsort to produce an ordering of those functions that
satisfies your requirement.

tsort detects any cycles in the input and writes the first cycle
encountered to standard error.
For a given partial ordering, generally there is no unique total
ordering. In the context of the call graph above, the function
parse_options may be placed anywhere in the list as long as it precedes
main.
To conform to POSIX.1-2024, tsort accepts and ignores the option -w. The
only other options are –help and –version. See Common options.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
tsort: Background
Up: tsort: Topological sort   [Contents][Index]

7.6.1 tsort: Background ¶
tsort exists because very early versions of the Unix linker processed an
archive file exactly once, and in order. As ld read each object in the
archive, it decided whether it was needed in the program based on
whether it defined any symbols which were undefined at that point in the
link.
This meant that dependencies within the archive had to be handled
specially. For example, scanf probably calls read. That means that in a
single pass through an archive, it was important for scanf.o to appear
before read.o, because otherwise a program which calls scanf but not
read might end up with an unexpected unresolved reference to read.
The way to address this problem was to first generate a set of
dependencies of one object file on another. This was done by a shell
script called lorder. The GNU tools don’t provide a version of lorder,
as far as I know, but you can still find it in BSD distributions.
Then you ran tsort over the lorder output, and you used the resulting
sort to define the order in which you added objects to the archive.
This whole procedure has been obsolete since about 1980, because Unix
archives now contain a symbol table (traditionally built by ranlib, now
generally built by ar itself), and the Unix linker uses the symbol table
to effectively make multiple passes over an archive file.
Anyhow, that’s where tsort came from. To solve an old problem with the
way the linker handled archive files, which has since been solved in
different ways.
Next: Operating on characters, Previous: Operating on sorted files, Up:
GNU Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

8 Operating on fields ¶
cut: Print selected parts of lines
paste: Merge lines of files
join: Join lines on a common field
Next: paste: Merge lines of files, Up: Operating on fields  
[Contents][Index]

8.1 cut: Print selected parts of lines ¶
cut writes to standard output selected parts of each line of each input
file, or standard input if no files are given or for a file name of ‘-’.
Synopsis:

In the table which follows, the byte-list, character-list, and
field-list are one or more numbers or ranges (two numbers separated by a
dash) separated by commas. Bytes, characters, and fields are numbered
starting at 1. Incomplete ranges may be given: -m means ‘1-m’; ‘n-’
means ‘n’ through end of line or last field. The list elements can be
repeated, can overlap, and can be specified in any order; but the
selected input is written in the same order that it is read, and is
written exactly once.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-b byte-list’ ¶
‘–bytes=byte-list’
Select for printing only the bytes in positions listed in byte-list.
Tabs and backspaces are treated like any other character; they take up 1
byte. If an output delimiter is specified, (see the description of
–output-delimiter), then output that string between ranges of selected
bytes.
‘-c character-list’ ¶
‘–characters=character-list’
Select for printing only the characters in positions listed in
character-list. The same as -b for now, but internationalization will
change that. Tabs and backspaces are treated like any other character;
they take up 1 character. If an output delimiter is specified, (see the
description of –output-delimiter), then output that string between
ranges of selected bytes.
‘-f field-list’ ¶
‘–fieldsfield-list’
Select for printing only the fields listed in field-list. Fields are
separated by a TAB character by default. Also print any line that
contains no delimiter character, unless the –only-delimited (-s) option
is specified.
The awk command supports more sophisticated field processing, like
reordering fields, and handling fields aligned with blank characters. By
default awk uses (and discards) runs of blank characters to separate
fields, and ignores leading and trailing blanks.

While cut accepts field specifications in arbitrary order, output is
always in the order encountered in the file.
In the unlikely event that awk is unavailable, one can use the join
command, to process blank characters as awk does above.

‘-d input_delim_byte’ ¶
‘–delimiter=input_delim_byte’
With -f, use the first byte of input_delim_byte as the input fields
separator (default is TAB).
‘-n’ ¶
Do not split multi-byte characters (no-op for now).
‘-s’ ¶
‘–only-delimited’
For -f, do not print lines that do not contain the field separator
character. Normally, any line without a field separator is printed
verbatim.
‘–output-delimiter=string’ ¶
With -f, output fields are separated by string. The default with -f is
to use the input delimiter. When using -b or -c to select ranges of byte
or character offsets (as opposed to ranges of fields), output
output_delim_string between non-overlapping ranges of selected bytes.
‘–complement’ ¶
This option is a GNU extension. Select for printing the complement of
the bytes, characters or fields selected with the -b, -c or -f options.
In other words, do not print the bytes, characters or fields specified
via those options. This option is useful when you have many fields and
want to print all but a few of them.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero-terminated’
Delimit items with a zero byte rather than a newline (ASCII LF). I.e.,
treat input as items separated by ASCII NUL and terminate output items
with ASCII NUL. This option can be useful in conjunction with ‘perl -0’
or ‘find -print0’ and ‘xargs -0’ which do the same in order to reliably
handle arbitrary file names (even those containing blanks or other
special characters).
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: join: Join lines on a common field, Previous: cut: Print selected
parts of lines, Up: Operating on fields   [Contents][Index]

8.2 paste: Merge lines of files ¶

paste writes to standard output lines consisting of sequentially
corresponding lines of each given file, separated by a delimiter
character (default is the TAB character). The newline of every line
except the line from the last input file is replaced with a delimiter
character. Standard input is used for a file name of ‘-’ or if no input
files are given.
Synopsis:

For example, with:

Take lines sequentially from each file:

Duplicate lines from a file:

Intermix lines from standard input:

Join consecutive lines with a space:

Comma separate data:

The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–serial’
Paste the lines of one file at a time rather than one line from each
file. The newline of every line except the last line in each input file
is replaced with a delimiter character. Using the above example data:

‘-d delim-list’ ¶
‘–delimiters=delim-list’
Consecutively use the characters in delim-list instead of TAB to
separate merged lines. When delim-list is exhausted, start again at its
beginning.
The following backslash escape sequences are recognized in delim-list:
‘\0 The empty string (not the NUL character)’
‘newline’
‘AB’
‘\ A backslash’
‘ackspace (GNU extension)’
‘orm feed (GNU extension)’
‘arriage return (GNU extension)’
‘ertical tab (GNU extension)’
It is an error if no character follows an unescaped backslash. As a GNU
extension, a backslash followed by a character not listed above is
interpreted as that character.
Using the above example data:

‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero-terminated’
Delimit items with a zero byte rather than a newline (ASCII LF). I.e.,
treat input as items separated by ASCII NUL and terminate output items
with ASCII NUL. This option can be useful in conjunction with ‘perl -0’
or ‘find -print0’ and ‘xargs -0’ which do the same in order to reliably
handle arbitrary file names (even those containing blanks or other
special characters).
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Previous: paste: Merge lines of files, Up: Operating on fields  
[Contents][Index]

8.3 join: Join lines on a common field ¶

join writes to standard output a line for each pair of input lines that
have identical join fields. Synopsis:

Either file1 or file2 (but not both) can be ‘-’, meaning standard input.
file1 and file2 should be sorted on the join fields.

join’s default behavior (when no options are given):
the join field is the first field in each line;
fields in the input are separated by one or more blanks, with leading
blanks on the line ignored;
fields in the output are separated by a space;
each output line consists of the join field, the remaining fields from
file1, then the remaining fields from file2.
General options
Pre-sorting
Working with fields
Controlling join’s field matching
Header lines
Union, Intersection and Difference of files
Next: Pre-sorting, Up: join: Join lines on a common field  
[Contents][Index]

8.3.1 General options ¶
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-a file-number’ ¶
Print a line for each unpairable line in file file-number (either ‘1’ or
‘2’), in addition to the normal output.
‘–check-order’ ¶
Fail with an error message if either input file is wrongly ordered.
‘–nocheck-order’ ¶
Do not check that both input files are in sorted order. This is the
default.
‘-e string’ ¶
Replace those output fields that are missing in the input with string.
I.e., missing fields specified with the -12jo options.
‘–header’ ¶
Treat the first line of each input file as a header line. The header
lines will be joined and printed as the first output line. If -o is used
to specify output format, the header line will be printed according to
the specified format. The header lines will not be checked for ordering
even if –check-order is specified. Also if the header lines from each
file do not match, the heading fields from the first file will be used.
‘-i’ ¶
‘–ignore-case’
Ignore differences in case when comparing keys. With this option, the
lines of the input files must be ordered in the same way. Use ‘sort -f’
to produce this ordering.
‘-1 field’ ¶
Join on field field (a positive integer) of file 1.
‘-2 field’ ¶
Join on field field (a positive integer) of file 2.
‘-j field’ ¶
Equivalent to -1 field -2 field.
‘-o field-list’
‘-o auto’
If the keyword ‘auto’ is specified, infer the output format from the
first line in each file. This is the same as the default output format
but also ensures the same number of fields are output for each line.
Missing fields are replaced with the -e option and extra fields are
discarded.
Otherwise, construct each output line according to the format in
field-list. Each element in field-list is either the single character
‘0’ or has the form m.n where the file number, m, is ‘1’ or ‘2’ and n is
a positive field number.
A field specification of ‘0’ denotes the join field. In most cases, the
functionality of the ‘0’ field spec may be reproduced using the explicit
m.n that corresponds to the join field. However, when printing
unpairable lines (using either of the -a or -v options), there is no way
to specify the join field using m.n in field-list if there are
unpairable lines in both files. To give join that functionality, POSIX
invented the ‘0’ field specification notation.
The elements in field-list are separated by commas or blanks. Blank
separators typically need to be quoted for the shell. For example, the
commands ‘join -o 1.2,2.2’ and ‘join -o ‘1.2 2.2’’ are equivalent.
All output lines – including those printed because of any -a or -v
option – are subject to the specified field-list.
‘-t char’ ¶
Use character char as the input and output field separator. Treat as
significant each occurrence of char in the input file. Use ‘sort -t
char’, without the -b option of ‘sort’, to produce this ordering. If
‘join -t ’‘’ is specified, the whole line is considered, matching the
default operation of sort. If ‘-t’\0’’ is specified then the ASCII NUL
character is used to delimit the fields.
‘-v file-number’ ¶
Print a line for each unpairable line in file file-number (either ‘1’ or
‘2’), instead of the normal output.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero-terminated’
Delimit items with a zero byte rather than a newline (ASCII LF). I.e.,
treat input as items separated by ASCII NUL and terminate output items
with ASCII NUL. This option can be useful in conjunction with ‘perl -0’
or ‘find -print0’ and ‘xargs -0’ which do the same in order to reliably
handle arbitrary file names (even those containing blanks or other
special characters). With -z the newline character is treated as a field
separator.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
If the –check-order option is given, unsorted inputs will cause a fatal
error message. If the option –nocheck-order is given, unsorted inputs
will never cause an error message. If neither of these options is given,
wrongly sorted inputs are diagnosed only if an input file is found to
contain unpairable lines, and when both input files are non empty. If an
input file is diagnosed as being unsorted, the join command will exit
with a nonzero status (and the output should not be used).
Forcing join to process wrongly sorted input files containing unpairable
lines by specifying –nocheck-order is not guaranteed to produce any
particular output. The output will probably not correspond with whatever
you hoped it would be.
Next: Working with fields, Previous: General options, Up: join: Join
lines on a common field   [Contents][Index]

8.3.2 Pre-sorting ¶
join requires sorted input files. Each input file should be sorted
according to the key (=field/column number) used in join. The
recommended sorting option is ‘sort -k 1b,1’ (assuming the desired key
is in the first column).
Typical usage:

Normally, the sort order is that of the collating sequence specified by
the LC_COLLATE locale. Unless the -t option is given, the sort
comparison ignores blanks at the start of the join field, as in sort -b.
If the –ignore-case option is given, the sort comparison ignores the
case of characters in the join field, as in sort -f:

The sort and join commands should use consistent locales and options if
the output of sort is fed to join. You can use a command like ‘sort -k
1b,1’ to sort a file on its default join field, but if you select a
non-default locale, join field, separator, or comparison options, then
you should do so consistently between join and sort.
To avoid any locale-related issues, it is recommended to use the ‘C’
locale for both commands:

Next: Controlling join’s field matching, Previous: Pre-sorting, Up:
join: Join lines on a common field   [Contents][Index]

8.3.3 Working with fields ¶
Use -1,-2 to set the key fields for each of the input files. Ensure the
preceding sort commands operated on the same fields.
The following example joins two files, using the values from seventh
field of the first file and the third field of the second file:

If the field number is the same for both files, use -j:

Both sort and join operate of whitespace-delimited fields. To specify a
different delimiter, use -t in both:

To specify a tab (ASCII 0x09) character instead of whitespace, use:2

If ‘join -t ’’’ is specified then the whole line is considered which
matches the default operation of sort:

Next: Header lines, Previous: Working with fields, Up: join: Join lines
on a common field   [Contents][Index]

8.3.4 Controlling join’s field matching ¶
In this section the sort commands are omitted for brevity. Sorting the
files before joining is still required.
join’s default behavior is to print only lines common to both input
files. Use -a and -v to print unpairable lines from one or both files.
All examples below use the following two (pre-sorted) input files:

Command
Outcome

common lines (intersection)

common lines and unpaired lines from the first file

common lines and unpaired lines from the second file

all lines (paired and unpaired) from both files (union). see note below
regarding -o auto.

unpaired lines from the first file (difference)

unpaired lines from the second file (difference)

unpaired lines from both files, omitting common lines (symmetric
difference).
The -o auto -e X options are useful when dealing with unpaired lines.
The following example prints all lines (common and unpaired) from both
files. Without -o auto it is not easy to discern which fields originate
from which file:

If the input has no unpairable lines, a GNU extension is available; the
sort order can be any order that considers two fields to be equal if and
only if the sort comparison described above considers them to be equal.
For example:

Next: Union, Intersection and Difference of files, Previous: Controlling
join’s field matching, Up: join: Join lines on a common field  
[Contents][Index]

8.3.5 Header lines ¶
The –header option can be used when the files to join have a header line
which is not sorted:

To sort a file with a header line, use GNU sed -u. The following example
sort the files but keeps the first line of each file in place:

Previous: Header lines, Up: join: Join lines on a common field  
[Contents][Index]

8.3.6 Union, Intersection and Difference of files ¶
Combine sort, uniq and join to perform the equivalent of set operations
on files:
Command
outcome
sort -u file1 file2
Union of unsorted files
sort file1 file2 | uniq -d
Intersection of unsorted files
sort file1 file1 file2 | uniq -u
Difference of unsorted files
sort file1 file2 | uniq -u
Symmetric Difference of unsorted files
join -t ’’ -a1 -a2 file1 file2
Union of sorted files
join -t ’’ file1 file2
Intersection of sorted files
join -t ’’ -v2 file1 file2
Difference of sorted files
join -t ’’ -v1 -v2 file1 file2
Symmetric Difference of sorted files
All examples above operate on entire lines and not on specific fields:
sort without -k and join -t ’’ both consider entire lines as the key.
Next: Directory listing, Previous: Operating on fields, Up: GNU
Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

9 Operating on characters ¶

These commands operate on individual characters.
tr: Translate, squeeze, and/or delete characters
expand: Convert tabs to spaces
unexpand: Convert spaces to tabs
Next: expand: Convert tabs to spaces, Up: Operating on characters  
[Contents][Index]

9.1 tr: Translate, squeeze, and/or delete characters ¶

Synopsis:

tr copies standard input to standard output, performing one of the
following operations:
translate, and optionally squeeze repeated characters in the result,
squeeze repeated characters,
delete characters,
delete characters, then squeeze repeated characters from the result.
The string1 and string2 operands define arrays of characters array1 and
array2. By default array1 lists input characters that tr operates on,
and array2 lists corresponding translations. In some cases the second
operand is omitted.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
Options must precede operands.
‘-c’ ¶
‘-C’
‘–complement’
Instead of array1, use its complement (all characters not specified by
string1), in ascending order. Use this option with caution in multibyte
locales where its meaning is not always clear or portable; see
Specifying arrays of characters.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–delete’
Delete characters in array1; do not translate.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–squeeze-repeats’
Replace each sequence of a repeated character that is listed in the last
specified array, with a single occurrence of that character.
‘-t’ ¶
‘–truncate-set1’
Truncate array1 to the length of array2.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Specifying arrays of characters
Translating
Squeezing repeats and deleting
Next: Translating, Up: tr: Translate, squeeze, and/or delete characters
  [Contents][Index]

9.1.1 Specifying arrays of characters ¶

The string1 and string2 operands are not regular expressions, even
though they may look similar. Instead, they merely represent arrays of
characters. As a GNU extension to POSIX, an empty string operand
represents an empty array of characters.
The interpretation of string1 and string2 depends on locale. GNU tr
fully supports only safe single-byte locales, where each possible input
byte represents a single character. Unfortunately, this means GNU tr
will not handle commands like ‘tr ö Ł’ the way you might expect, since
(assuming a UTF-8 encoding) this is equivalent to ‘tr ‘\303\266’
‘\305\201’’ and GNU tr will simply transliterate all ‘\303’ bytes to
‘\305’ bytes, etc. POSIX does not clearly specify the behavior of tr in
locales where characters are represented by byte sequences instead of by
individual bytes, or where data might contain invalid bytes that are
encoding errors. To avoid problems in this area, you can run tr in a
safe single-byte locale by using a shell command like ‘LC_ALL=C tr’
instead of plain tr.
Although most characters simply represent themselves in string1 and
string2, the strings can contain shorthands listed below, for
convenience. Some shorthands can be used only in string1 or string2, as
noted below.
Backslash escapes ¶
The following backslash escape sequences are recognized:
‘’
Bell (BEL, Control-G).
‘/samp>’
Backspace (BS, Control-H).
‘/samp>’
Form feed (FF, Control-L).
‘’
Newline (LF, Control-J).
‘/samp>’
Carriage return (CR, Control-M).
‘/samp>’
Tab (HT, Control-I).
‘/samp>’
Vertical tab (VT, Control-K).
‘<var class=“var”>ooo’
The eight-bit byte with the value given by ooo, which is the longest
sequence of one to three octal digits following the backslash. For
portability, ooo should represent a value that fits in eight bits. As a
GNU extension to POSIX, if the value would not fit, then only the first
two digits of ooo are used, e.g., ‘\400’ is equivalent to ‘\0400’ and
represents a two-byte sequence.
‘\’
A backslash.
It is an error if no character follows an unescaped backslash. As a GNU
extension, a backslash followed by a character not listed above is
interpreted as that character, removing any special significance; this
can be used to escape the characters ‘[’ and ‘-’ when they would
otherwise be special.
Ranges ¶
The notation ‘m-n’ expands to the characters from m through n, in
ascending order. m should not collate after n; if it does, an error
results. As an example, ‘0-9’ is the same as ‘0123456789’.
GNU tr does not support the System V syntax that uses square brackets to
enclose ranges. Translations specified in that format sometimes work as
expected, since the brackets are often transliterated to themselves.
However, they should be avoided because they sometimes behave
unexpectedly. For example, ‘tr -d ‘[0-9]’’ deletes brackets as well as
digits.
Many historically common and even accepted uses of ranges are not fully
portable. For example, on EBCDIC hosts using the ‘A-Z’ range will not do
what most would expect because ‘A’ through ‘Z’ are not contiguous as
they are in ASCII. One way to work around this is to use character
classes (see below). Otherwise, it is most portable (and most ugly) to
enumerate the members of the ranges.
Repeated characters ¶
The notation ‘[c*n]’ in string2 expands to n copies of character c.
Thus, ‘[y*6]’ is the same as ‘yyyyyy’. The notation ‘[c*]’ in string2
expands to as many copies of c as are needed to make array2 as long as
array1. If n begins with ‘0’, it is interpreted in octal, otherwise in
decimal. A zero-valued n is treated as if it were absent.
Character classes ¶
The notation ‘[:class:]’ expands to all characters in the (predefined)
class class. When the –delete (-d) and –squeeze-repeats (-s) options are
both given, any character class can be used in string2. Otherwise, only
the character classes lower and upper are accepted in string2, and then
only if the corresponding character class (upper and lower,
respectively) is specified in the same relative position in string1.
Doing this specifies case conversion. Except for case conversion, a
class’s characters appear in no particular order. The class names are
given below; an error results when an invalid class name is given.
alnum ¶
Letters and digits.
alpha ¶
Letters.
blank ¶
Horizontal whitespace.
cntrl ¶
Control characters.
digit ¶
Digits.
graph ¶
Printable characters, not including space.
lower ¶
Lowercase letters.
print ¶
Printable characters, including space.
punct ¶
Punctuation characters.
space ¶
Horizontal or vertical whitespace.
upper ¶
Uppercase letters.
xdigit ¶
Hexadecimal digits.
Equivalence classes ¶
The syntax ‘[=c=]’ expands to all characters equivalent to c, in no
particular order. These equivalence classes are allowed in string2 only
when –delete (-d) and –squeeze-repeats -s are both given.
Although equivalence classes are intended to support non-English
alphabets, there seems to be no standard way to define them or determine
their contents. Therefore, they are not fully implemented in GNU tr;
each character’s equivalence class consists only of that character,
which is of no particular use.
Since ‘[:class:]’ and ‘[=c=]’ syntax are similar to shell globbing
syntax, all such class arguments should be quoted appropriately, when
running tr from the shell.
Next: Squeezing repeats and deleting, Previous: Specifying arrays of
characters, Up: tr: Translate, squeeze, and/or delete characters  
[Contents][Index]

9.1.2 Translating ¶

tr performs translation when string1 and string2 are both given and the
–delete (-d) option is not given. tr translates each character of its
input that is in array1 to the corresponding character in array2.
Characters not in array1 are passed through unchanged.
As a GNU extension to POSIX, when a character appears more than once in
array1, only the final instance is used. For example, these two commands
are equivalent:

A common use of tr is to convert lowercase characters to uppercase. This
can be done in many ways. Here are three of them:

However, ranges like a-z are not portable outside the C locale.
When tr is performing translation, array1 and array2 typically have the
same length. If array1 is shorter than array2, the extra characters at
the end of array2 are ignored.
On the other hand, making array1 longer than array2 is not portable;
POSIX says that the result is undefined. In this situation, BSD tr pads
array2 to the length of array1 by repeating the last character of array2
as many times as necessary. System V tr truncates array1 to the length
of array2.
By default, GNU tr handles this case like BSD tr. When the
–truncate-set1 (-t) option is given, GNU tr handles this case like the
System V tr instead. This option is ignored for operations other than
translation.
Acting like System V tr in this case breaks the relatively common BSD
idiom:

because it converts only zero bytes (the first element in the complement
of array1), rather than all non-alphanumerics, to newlines.
By the way, the above idiom is not portable because it uses ranges, and
it assumes that the octal code for newline is 012. Here is a better way
to write it:

Previous: Translating, Up: tr: Translate, squeeze, and/or delete
characters   [Contents][Index]

9.1.3 Squeezing repeats and deleting ¶

When given just the –delete (-d) option, tr removes any input characters
that are in array1.
When given just the –squeeze-repeats (-s) option and not translating, tr
replaces each input sequence of a repeated character that is in array1
with a single occurrence of that character.
When given both –delete and –squeeze-repeats, tr first performs any
deletions using array1, then squeezes repeats from any remaining
characters using array2.
The –squeeze-repeats option may also be used when translating, in which
case tr first performs translation, then squeezes repeats from any
remaining characters using array2.
Here are some examples to illustrate various combinations of options:
Remove all zero bytes:

Put all words on lines by themselves. This converts all non-alphanumeric
characters to newlines, then squeezes each string of repeated newlines
into a single newline:

Convert each sequence of repeated newlines to a single newline. I.e.,
delete empty lines:

Find doubled occurrences of words in a document. For example, people
often write “the the” with the repeated words separated by a newline.
The Bourne shell script below works first by converting each sequence of
punctuation and blank characters to a single newline. That puts each
“word” on a line by itself. Next it maps all uppercase characters to
lower case, and finally it runs uniq with the -d option to print out
only the words that were repeated.

Deleting a small set of characters is usually straightforward. For
example, to remove all ‘a’s, ‘x’s, and ‘M’s you would do this:

However, when ‘-’ is one of those characters, it can be tricky because
‘-’ has special meanings. Performing the same task as above but also
removing all ‘-’ characters, we might try tr -d -axM, but that would
fail because tr would try to interpret -a as a command-line option.
Alternatively, we could try putting the hyphen inside the string, tr -d
a-xM, but that wouldn’t work either because it would make tr interpret
a-x as the range of characters ‘a’…‘x’ rather than the three. One way to
solve the problem is to put the hyphen at the end of the list of
characters:

Or you can use ‘–’ to terminate option processing:

Next: unexpand: Convert spaces to tabs, Previous: tr: Translate,
squeeze, and/or delete characters, Up: Operating on characters  
[Contents][Index]

9.2 expand: Convert tabs to spaces ¶

expand writes the contents of each given file, or standard input if none
are given or for a file of ‘-’, to standard output, with tab characters
converted to the appropriate number of spaces. Synopsis:

By default, expand converts all tabs to spaces. It preserves backspace
characters in the output; they decrement the column count for tab
calculations. The default action is equivalent to -t 8 (set tabs every 8
columns).
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-t tab1[,tab2]…’ ¶
‘–tabs=tab1[,tab2]…’
If only one tab stop is given, set the tabs tab1 spaces apart (default
is 8). Otherwise, set the tabs at columns tab1, tab2, … (numbered from
0), and replace any tabs beyond the last tab stop given with single
spaces. Tab stops can be separated by blanks as well as by commas.
As a GNU extension the last tab specified can be prefixed with a ‘/’ to
indicate a tab size to use for remaining positions. For example,
–tabs=2,4,/8 will set tab stops at position 2 and 4, and every multiple
of 8 after that.
Also the last tab specified can be prefixed with a ‘+’ to indicate a tab
size to use for remaining positions, offset from the final explicitly
specified tab stop. For example, to ignore the 1 character gutter
present in diff output, one can specify a 1 character offset using
–tabs=1,+8, which will set tab stops at positions 1,9,17,…
For compatibility, GNU expand also accepts the obsolete option syntax,
-t1[,t2]…. New scripts should use -t t1[,t2]… instead.
‘-i’ ¶
‘–initial’
Only convert initial tabs (those that precede all non-space or non-tab
characters) on each line to spaces.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Previous: expand: Convert tabs to spaces, Up: Operating on characters  
[Contents][Index]

9.3 unexpand: Convert spaces to tabs ¶

unexpand writes the contents of each given file, or standard input if
none are given or for a file of ‘-’, to standard output, converting
blanks at the beginning of each line into as many tab characters as
needed. In the default POSIX locale, a blank is a space or a tab; other
locales may specify additional blank characters. Synopsis:

By default, unexpand converts only initial blanks (those that precede
all non-blank characters) on each line. It preserves backspace
characters in the output; they decrement the column count for tab
calculations. By default, tabs are set at every 8th column.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-t tab1[,tab2]…’ ¶
‘–tabs=tab1[,tab2]…’
If only one tab stop is given, set the tabs tab1 columns apart instead
of the default 8. Otherwise, set the tabs at columns tab1, tab2, …
(numbered from 0), and leave blanks beyond the tab stops given
unchanged. Tab stops can be separated by blanks as well as by commas.
As a GNU extension the last tab specified can be prefixed with a ‘/’ to
indicate a tab size to use for remaining positions. For example,
–tabs=2,4,/8 will set tab stops at position 2 and 4, and every multiple
of 8 after that.
Also the last tab specified can be prefixed with a ‘+’ to indicate a tab
size to use for remaining positions, offset from the final explicitly
specified tab stop. For example, to ignore the 1 character gutter
present in diff output, one can specify a 1 character offset using
–tabs=1,+8, which will set tab stops at positions 1,9,17,…
This option implies the -a option.
For compatibility, GNU unexpand supports the obsolete option syntax,
-tab1[,tab2]…, where tab stops must be separated by commas. (Unlike -t,
this obsolete option does not imply -a.) New scripts should use
–first-only -t tab1[,tab2]… instead.
‘-a’ ¶
‘–all’
Also convert all sequences of two or more blanks just before a tab stop,
even if they occur after non-blank characters in a line.
‘–first-only’ ¶
Convert only leading sequences of blanks (overrides -a).
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: Basic operations, Previous: Operating on characters, Up: GNU
Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

10 Directory listing ¶
This chapter describes the ls command and its variants dir and vdir,
which list information about files.
ls: List directory contents
dir: Briefly list directory contents
vdir: Verbosely list directory contents
dircolors: Color setup for ls
Next: dir: Briefly list directory contents, Up: Directory listing  
[Contents][Index]

10.1 ls: List directory contents ¶

The ls program lists information about files (of any type, including
directories). Options and file arguments can be intermixed arbitrarily,
as usual. Later options override earlier options that are incompatible.
For non-option command-line arguments that are directories, by default
ls lists the contents of directories, not recursively, and omitting
files with names beginning with ‘.’. For other non-option arguments, by
default ls lists just the file name. If no non-option argument is
specified, ls operates on the current directory, acting as if it had
been invoked with a single argument of ‘.’.
By default, ls lists each directory’s contents alphabetically, according
to the locale settings in effect.3 If standard output is a terminal, the
output is in columns (sorted vertically) and control characters are
output as question marks; otherwise, the output is listed one per line
and control characters are output as-is.
Because ls is such a fundamental program, it has accumulated many
options over the years. They are described in the subsections below;
within each section, options are listed alphabetically (ignoring case).
The division of options into the subsections is not absolute, since some
options affect more than one aspect of ls’s operation.
Exit status:

Also see Common options.
Which files are listed
What information is listed
Sorting the output
General output formatting
Formatting file timestamps
Formatting the file names
Next: What information is listed, Up: ls: List directory contents  
[Contents][Index]

10.1.1 Which files are listed ¶
These options determine which files ls lists information for. By
default, ls lists files and the contents of any directories on the
command line, except that in directories it ignores files whose names
start with ‘.’.
‘-a’ ¶
‘–all’
In directories, do not ignore file names that start with ‘.’.
‘-A’ ¶
‘–almost-all’
In directories, do not ignore all file names that start with ‘.’; ignore
only . and ... The –all (-a) option overrides this option.
‘-B’ ¶
‘–ignore-backups’
In directories, ignore files that end with ‘~’. This option is
equivalent to ‘–ignore=‘~’ –ignore=’.~’’.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–directory’
List just the names of directories, as with other types of files, rather
than listing their contents. Do not follow symbolic links listed on the
command line unless the –dereference-command-line (-H), –dereference
(-L), or –dereference-command-line-symlink-to-dir options are specified.
‘-H’ ¶
‘–dereference-command-line’
If a command line argument specifies a symbolic link, show information
for the file the link references rather than for the link itself.
‘–dereference-command-line-symlink-to-dir’ ¶
Do not dereference symbolic links, with one exception: if a command line
argument specifies a symbolic link that refers to a directory, show
information for that directory rather than for the link itself. This is
the default behavior unless long format is being used or any of the
following options is in effect: –classify (-F), –directory (-d),
–dereference (-L), or –dereference-command-line (-H)).
‘–hide=pattern’ ¶
In directories, ignore files whose names match the shell pattern
pattern, unless the –all (-a) or –almost-all (-A) is also given. This
option acts like –ignore=pattern except that it has no effect if –all
(-a) or –almost-all (-A) is also given.
This option can be useful in shell aliases. For example, if lx is an
alias for ‘ls –hide=‘~’’ and ly is an alias for ‘ls –ignore=’~’’, then
the command ‘lx -A’ lists the file README~ even though ‘ly -A’ would
not.
‘-I pattern’ ¶
‘–ignore=pattern’
In directories, ignore files whose names match the shell pattern (not
regular expression) pattern. As in the shell, an initial ‘.’ in a file
name does not match a wildcard at the start of pattern. Sometimes it is
useful to give this option several times. For example,

The first option ignores names of length 3 or more that start with ‘.’,
the second ignores all two-character names that start with ‘.’ except
‘..’, and the third ignores names that start with ‘#’.
‘-L’ ¶
‘–dereference’
When showing file information for a symbolic link, show information for
the file the link references rather than the link itself. However, even
with this option, ls still prints the name of the link itself, not the
name of the file that the link points to.
‘-R’ ¶
‘–recursive’
List the contents of all directories recursively.
Next: Sorting the output, Previous: Which files are listed, Up: ls: List
directory contents   [Contents][Index]

10.1.2 What information is listed ¶
These options affect the information that ls displays. By default, only
file names are shown.
‘–author’ ¶
In long format, list each file’s author. In GNU/Hurd, file authors can
differ from their owners, but in other operating systems the two are the
same.
‘-D’ ¶
‘–dired’
Print an additional line after the main output:

The begn and endn are unsigned integers that record the byte position of
the beginning and end of each file name in the output. This makes it
easy for Emacs to find the names, even when they contain unusual
characters such as space or newline, without fancy searching.
If directories are being listed recursively via –recursive (-R), output
a similar line with offsets for each subdirectory name:

Finally, output a line of the form:

where word is the quoting style (see Formatting the file names).
Here is an actual example:

The pairs of offsets on the ‘//DIRED//’ line above delimit these names:
f1, f2, sub, sub2, deeper, file. The offsets on the ‘//SUBDIRED//’ line
delimit the following directory names: a, a/sub, a/sub/deeper, a/sub2.
Here is an example of how to extract the fifth entry name, ‘deeper’,
corresponding to the pair of offsets, 222 and 228:

Although the listing above includes a trailing slash for the ‘deeper’
entry, the offsets select the name without the trailing slash. However,
if you invoke ls with –dired (-D) along with an option like –escape (-b)
and operate on a file whose name contains special characters, the
backslash is included:

If you use a quoting style like –quoting-style=c (-Q) that adds quote
marks, then the offsets include the quote marks. So beware that the user
may select the quoting style via the environment variable QUOTING_STYLE.
Hence, applications using –dired should either specify an explicit
–quoting-style=literal (-N) option on the command line, or else be
prepared to parse the escaped names.
The –dired (-D) option implies long format output with hyperlinks
disabled, and takes precedence over previously specified output formats
or hyperlink mode.
‘–full-time’ ¶
Produce long format, and list times in full. It is equivalent to using
–format=long (-l) with –time-style=full-iso (see Formatting file
timestamps).
‘-g’ ¶
Produce long format, but omit owner information.
‘-G’ ¶
‘–no-group’
Inhibit display of group information in long format. (This is the
default in some non-GNU versions of ls, so we provide this option for
compatibility.)
‘–block-size=size’ ¶
With -l, scale sizes by size before printing them (see Block size). For
example, –block-size=G prints sizes in units of 1,073,741,824 bytes.
‘-h’ ¶
‘–human-readable’
Append a size letter to each size, such as ‘M’ for mebibytes. Powers of
1024 are used, not 1000; ‘M’ stands for 1,048,576 bytes. This option is
equivalent to –block-size=human-readable. Use the –si option if you
prefer powers of 1000.
‘-i’ ¶
‘–inode’
Print the inode number (also called the file serial number and index
number) of each file to the left of the file name. (This number uniquely
identifies each file within a particular file system.)
‘-l’ ¶
‘–format=long’
‘–format=verbose’
Produce long format. In addition to the name of each file, print the
file type, file mode bits, number of hard links, owner name, group name,
size, and timestamp (see Formatting file timestamps), normally the
modification timestamp (the mtime, see File timestamps). If the owner or
group name cannot be determined, print the owner or group ID instead,
right-justified as a cue that it is a number rather than a textual name.
Print question marks for other information that cannot be determined.
For block special files and character special files, the size field is
replaced by the corresponding device major and minor numbers as two
decimal numbers separated by a comma and at least one space.
Normally the size is printed as a byte count without punctuation, but
this can be overridden (see Block size). For example, –human-readable
(-h) prints an abbreviated, human-readable count, and ‘–block-size="’1"’
prints a byte count with the thousands separator of the current locale.
For each directory that is listed, preface the files with a line ‘total
blocks’, where blocks is the file system allocation for all files in
that directory. The block size currently defaults to 1024 bytes, but
this can be overridden (see Block size). The blocks computed counts each
hard link separately; this is arguably a deficiency.
The file type is one of the following characters:
‘-’
regular file
‘b’
block special file
‘c’
character special file
‘C’
high performance (“contiguous data”) file
‘d’
directory
‘D’
door (Solaris)
‘l’
symbolic link
‘M’
off-line (“migrated”) file (Cray DMF)
‘n’
network special file (HP-UX)
‘p’
FIFO (named pipe)
‘P’
port (Solaris)
‘s’
socket
‘?’
some other file type
The file mode bits listed are similar to symbolic mode specifications
(see Symbolic Modes). But ls combines multiple bits into the third
character of each set of permissions as follows:
‘s’
If the set-user-ID or set-group-ID bit and the corresponding executable
bit are both set.
‘S’
If the set-user-ID or set-group-ID bit is set but the corresponding
executable bit is not set.
‘t’
If the restricted deletion flag or sticky bit, and the other-executable
bit, are both set. The restricted deletion flag is another name for the
sticky bit. See Structure of File Mode Bits.
‘T’
If the restricted deletion flag or sticky bit is set but the
other-executable bit is not set.
‘x’
If the executable bit is set and none of the above apply.
‘-’
Otherwise.
Following the file mode bits is a single character that specifies
whether an alternate access method such as an access control list
applies to the file. When the character following the file mode bits is
a space, there is no alternate access method. When it is a printing
character, then there is such a method.
GNU ls uses a ‘.’ character to indicate a file with a security context,
but no other alternate access method.
A file with any other combination of alternate access methods is marked
with a ‘+’ character.
ls uses a ‘?’ character to indicate it is unable to determine whether
alternate access methods apply to the file, which may happen for example
with some NFS setups with files without read permission.
‘-n’ ¶
‘–numeric-uid-gid’
Produce long format, but display right-justified numeric user and group
IDs instead of left-justified owner and group names.
‘-o’ ¶
Produce long format, but omit group information. It is equivalent to
using –format=long (-l) with –no-group (-G).
‘-s’ ¶
‘–size’
Print the file system allocation of each file to the left of the file
name. This is the amount of file system space used by the file, which is
usually a bit more than the file’s size, but it can be less if the file
has holes.
Normally the allocation is printed in units of 1024 bytes, but this can
be overridden (see Block size).
For files that are NFS-mounted from an HP-UX system to a BSD system,
this option reports sizes that are half the correct values. On HP-UX
systems, it reports sizes that are twice the correct values for files
that are NFS-mounted from BSD systems. This is due to a flaw in HP-UX;
it also affects the HP-UX ls program.
‘–si’ ¶
Append an SI-style abbreviation to each size, such as ‘M’ for megabytes.
Powers of 1000 are used, not 1024; ‘M’ stands for 1,000,000 bytes. This
option is equivalent to –block-size=si. Use the -h or –human-readable
option if you prefer powers of 1024.
‘-Z’ ¶
‘–context’
Display the SELinux security context or ‘?’ if none is found. In long
format, print the security context to the left of the size column.
Next: General output formatting, Previous: What information is listed,
Up: ls: List directory contents   [Contents][Index]

10.1.3 Sorting the output ¶
These options change the order in which ls outputs information for the
files in a directory. (Command-line operands are always processed left
to right.) By default, files are sorted alphabetically by name, using
the character collating sequence specified by the LC_COLLATE locale.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–time=ctime’
‘–time=status’
In long format, print the status change timestamp (the ctime) instead of
the mtime. When sorting by time or when not using long format, sort
according to the ctime. See File timestamps.
‘-f’ ¶
Do not sort, and list all files. This is like –sort=none (-U) combined
with –all (-a).
‘–group-directories-first’ ¶
When listing a directory’s files, group all subdirectories before
non-directories and then sort the subdirectories and the non-directories
separately. That is, this option specifies a primary sort key, and the
other sorting options specify a secondary key. However, any use of
–sort=none (-U) disables this option altogether.
‘-r’ ¶
‘–reverse’
Reverse whatever the sorting method is – e.g., list files in reverse
alphabetical order, youngest first, smallest first, or whatever. This
option has no effect when –sort=none (-U) is in effect.
‘-S’ ¶
‘–sort=size’
Sort by file size, largest first.
‘-t’ ¶
‘–sort=time’
Sort by modification timestamp (mtime) by default, newest first. The
timestamp to order by can be changed with the –time option. See File
timestamps.
‘-u’ ¶
‘–time=atime’ ¶
‘–time=access’
‘–time=use’
In long format, print the last access timestamp (the atime). When
sorting by time or when not using long format, sort according to the
atime. See File timestamps.
‘–time=mtime’ ¶
‘–time=modification’
This is the default timestamp display and sorting mode. In long format,
print the last data modification timestamp (the mtime). When sorting by
time or when not using long format, sort according to the mtime. See
File timestamps.
‘–time=birth’ ¶
‘–time=creation’
In long format, print the file creation timestamp if available, falling
back to the file modification timestamp (mtime) if not. When sorting by
time or when not using long format, sort according to the birth time.
See File timestamps.
‘-U’ ¶
‘–sort=none’
Do not sort; list the files in whatever order they are stored in the
directory. This can be useful when listing large directories, where
sorting can take some time.
Unlike -f, this option does not imply –all (-a).
‘-v’ ¶
‘–sort=version’
Sort by version name and number, lowest first. It behaves like a default
sort, except that each sequence of decimal digits is treated numerically
as an index/version number. See Version sort ordering.
‘–sort=name’ ¶
Sort by file name. This is the default operation of ls, and can be
explicitly specified to override any previously specified sorting
option.
‘–sort=width’ ¶
Sort by printed width of file names. This can be useful with the
–format=vertical (-C) output format, to most densely display the listed
files.
‘-X’ ¶
‘–sort=extension’
Sort directory contents alphabetically by file extension (characters
after the last ‘.’); files with no extension are sorted first.
Next: Formatting file timestamps, Previous: Sorting the output, Up: ls:
List directory contents   [Contents][Index]

10.1.4 General output formatting ¶
These options affect the appearance of the overall output.
‘–format=single-column’ ¶
List one file name per line, with no other information. This is the
default for ls when standard output is not a terminal. See also the
–escape (-b), –hide-control-chars (-q), and –zero options to
disambiguate output of file names containing newline characters.
‘-1’ ¶
List one file per line. This is like –format=single-column except that
it has no effect if long format is also in effect.
‘-C’ ¶
‘–format=vertical’
List files in columns, sorted vertically, with no other information.
This is the default for ls if standard output is a terminal. It is
always the default for the dir program. GNU ls uses variable width
columns to display as many files as possible in the fewest lines.
‘–color[=when]’ ¶
Specify whether to use color for distinguishing file types; when may be
omitted, or one of:
none  - Do not use color at all. This is the default.
auto  - Only use color if standard output is a terminal.
always  - Always use color.
Specifying –color and no when is equivalent to –color=always. If piping
a colored listing through a pager like less, use the pager’s -R option
to pass the color codes to the terminal. See dircolors: Color setup for
ls to configure the colors used.
Using the –color option may incur a noticeable performance penalty when
run in a large directory, because the default settings require that ls
stat every single file it lists. However, if you would like most of the
file-type coloring but can live without the other coloring options
(e.g., executable, orphan, sticky, other-writable, capability), use
dircolors to set the LS_COLORS environment variable like this,

and on a dirent.d_type-capable file system, ls will perform only one
stat call per command line argument.
‘-F’ ¶
‘–classify[=when]’
‘–indicator-style=classify’
Append a character to each file name indicating the file type. Also, for
regular files that are executable, append ‘*’. The file type indicators
are ‘/’ for directories, ‘@’ for symbolic links, ‘|’ for FIFOs, ‘=’ for
sockets, ‘>’ for doors, and nothing for regular files. when may be
omitted, or one of:
none  - Do not classify. This is the default.
auto  - Only classify if standard output is a terminal.
always  - Always classify.
Specifying –classify and no when is equivalent to –classify=always. Do
not follow symbolic links listed on the command line unless the
–dereference-command-line (-H), –dereference (-L), or
–dereference-command-line-symlink-to-dir options are specified.
‘–file-type’ ¶
‘–indicator-style=file-type’
Append a character to each file name indicating the file type. This is
like –classify (-F, except that executables are not marked.
‘–hyperlink[=when]’ ¶
Output codes recognized by some terminals to link to files using the
‘file://’ URI format. when may be omitted, or one of:
none  - Do not use hyperlinks at all. This is the default.
auto  - Only use hyperlinks if standard output is a terminal.
always  - Always use hyperlinks.
Specifying –hyperlink and no when is equivalent to –hyperlink=always.
‘–indicator-style=word’ ¶
Append a character indicator with style word to file names, as follows:
‘none’
Do not append any character indicator; this is the default.
‘slash’
Append ‘/’ for directories. This is the same as the -p option.
‘file-type’
Append ‘/’ for directories, ‘@’ for symbolic links, ‘|’ for FIFOs, ‘=’
for sockets, and nothing for regular files. This is the same as the
–file-type option.
‘classify’
Append ‘*’ for executable regular files, otherwise behave as for
‘file-type’. This is the same as the –classify (-F) option.
‘-k’ ¶
‘–kibibytes’
Set the default block size to its normal value of 1024 bytes, overriding
any contrary specification in environment variables (see Block size). If
–block-size, –human-readable (-h), or –si options are used, they take
precedence even if –kibibytes (-k) is placed after the other options.
The –kibibytes (-k) option affects the per-directory block count written
in long format, and the file system allocation written by the –size (-s)
option. It does not affect the file size in bytes that is written in
long format.
‘-m’ ¶
‘–format=commas’
List files horizontally, with as many as will fit on each line,
separated by ‘, ’ (a comma and a space), and with no other information.
‘-p’ ¶
‘–indicator-style=slash’
Append a ‘/’ to directory names.
‘-x’ ¶
‘–format=across’
‘–format=horizontal’
List the files in columns, sorted horizontally.
‘-T cols’ ¶
‘–tabsize=cols’
Assume that each tab stop is cols columns wide. The default is 8. ls
uses tabs where possible in the output, for efficiency. If cols is zero,
do not use tabs at all.
Some terminal emulators might not properly align columns to the right of
a TAB following a non-ASCII byte. You can avoid that issue by using the
-T0 option or put TABSIZE=0 in your environment, to tell ls to align
using spaces, not tabs.
If you set a terminal’s hardware tabs to anything other than the
default, you should also use a –tabsize option or TABSIZE environment
variable either to match the hardware tabs, or to disable the use of
hardware tabs. Otherwise, the output of ls may not line up. For example,
if you run the shell command ‘tabs -4’ to set hardware tabs to every
four columns, you should also run ‘export TABSIZE=4’ or ‘export
TABSIZE=0’, or use the corresponding –tabsize options.
‘-w cols’ ¶
‘–width=cols’
Assume the screen is cols columns wide. The default is taken from the
terminal settings if possible; otherwise the environment variable
COLUMNS is used if it is set; otherwise the default is 80. With a cols
value of ‘0’, there is no limit on the length of the output line, and
that single output line will be delimited with spaces, not tabs.
‘–zero’ ¶
Output a zero byte (ASCII NUL) at the end of each line, rather than a
newline. This option enables other programs to parse the output even
when that output would contain data with embedded newlines. This option
is incompatible with the –dired (-D) option. This option also implies
the options –show-control-chars, -1, –color=none, and
–quoting-style=literal (-N).
Next: Formatting the file names, Previous: General output formatting,
Up: ls: List directory contents   [Contents][Index]

10.1.5 Formatting file timestamps ¶
By default, file timestamps are listed in abbreviated form, using a date
like ‘Mar 30  2020’ for non-recent timestamps, and a date-without-year
and time like ‘Mar 30 23:45’ for recent timestamps. This format can
change depending on the current locale as detailed below.
A timestamp is considered to be recent if it is less than six months
old, and is not dated in the future. If a timestamp dated today is not
listed in recent form, the timestamp is in the future, which means you
probably have clock skew problems which may break programs like make
that rely on file timestamps. See File timestamps.
Timestamps are listed according to the time zone rules specified by the
TZ environment variable, or by the system default rules if TZ is not
set. See Specifying the Time Zone with TZ in The GNU C Library Reference
Manual.
The following option changes how file timestamps are printed.
‘–time-style=style’ ¶
List timestamps in style style. The style should be one of the
following:
‘+format’ ¶
List timestamps using format, where format is interpreted like the
format argument of date (see date: Print or set system date and time).
For example, –time-style="+%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S" causes ls to list
timestamps like ‘2020-03-30 23:45:56’. As with date, format’s
interpretation is affected by the LC_TIME locale category.
If format contains two format strings separated by a newline, the former
is used for non-recent files and the latter for recent files; if you
want output columns to line up, you may need to insert spaces in one of
the two formats.
‘full-iso’
List timestamps in full using ISO 8601-like date, time, and time zone
components with nanosecond precision, e.g., ‘2020-07-21
23:45:56.477817180 -0400’. This style is equivalent to ‘+%Y-%m-%d
%H:%M:%S.%N %z’.
This is useful because the time output includes all the information that
is available from the operating system. For example, this can help
explain make’s behavior, since GNU make uses the full timestamp to
determine whether a file is out of date.
‘long-iso’
List ISO 8601 date and time components with minute precision, e.g.,
‘2020-03-30 23:45’. These timestamps are shorter than ‘full-iso’
timestamps, and are usually good enough for everyday work. This style is
equivalent to ‘+%Y-%m-%d %H:%M’.
‘iso’
List ISO 8601 dates for non-recent timestamps (e.g., ‘2020-03-30 ’), and
ISO 8601-like month, day, hour, and minute for recent timestamps (e.g.,
‘03-30 23:45’). These timestamps are uglier than ‘long-iso’ timestamps,
but they carry nearly the same information in a smaller space and their
brevity helps ls output fit within traditional 80-column output lines.
The following two ls invocations are equivalent:

‘locale’ ¶
List timestamps in a locale-dependent form. For example, a French locale
might list non-recent timestamps like ‘30 mars   2020’ and recent
timestamps like ‘30 mars  23:45’. Locale-dependent timestamps typically
consume more space than ‘iso’ timestamps and are harder for programs to
parse because locale conventions vary so widely, but they are easier for
many people to read.
The LC_TIME locale category specifies the timestamp format. The default
POSIX locale uses timestamps like ‘Mar 30  2020’ and ‘Mar 30 23:45’; in
this locale, the following two ls invocations are equivalent:

Other locales behave differently. For example, in a German locale,
–time-style="locale" might be equivalent to –time-style="+%e. %b %Y
$newline%e. %b %H:%M" and might generate timestamps like ‘30. Mär 2020 ’
and ‘30. Mär 23:45’.
‘posix-style’ ¶
List POSIX-locale timestamps if the LC_TIME locale category is POSIX,
style timestamps otherwise. For example, the ‘posix-long-iso’ style
lists timestamps like ‘Mar 30  2020’ and ‘Mar 30 23:45’ when in the
POSIX locale, and like ‘2020-03-30 23:45’ otherwise.
You can specify the default value of the –time-style option with the
environment variable TIME_STYLE; if TIME_STYLE is not set the default
style is ‘locale’. GNU Emacs 21.3 and later use the –dired option and
therefore can parse any date format, but if you are using Emacs 21.1 or
21.2 and specify a non-POSIX locale you may need to set
‘TIME_STYLE="posix-long-iso"’.
To avoid certain denial-of-service attacks, timestamps that would be
longer than 1000 bytes may be treated as errors.
Previous: Formatting file timestamps, Up: ls: List directory contents  
[Contents][Index]

10.1.6 Formatting the file names ¶
These options change how file names themselves are printed.
You can specify the default value of the –quoting-style option with the
environment variable QUOTING_STYLE. If that environment variable is not
set, the default value is ‘shell-escape’ when the output is a terminal,
and ‘literal’ otherwise.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–escape’
‘–quoting-style=escape’
Quote nongraphic characters in file names using alphabetic and octal
backslash sequences like those used in C.
‘-N’ ¶
‘–literal’
‘–quoting-style=literal’
Do not quote file names. However, with ls nongraphic characters are
still printed as question marks if the output is a terminal and you do
not specify the –show-control-chars option.
‘-q’ ¶
‘–hide-control-chars’
Print question marks instead of nongraphic characters in file names.
This is the default if the output is a terminal and the program is ls.
‘-Q’ ¶
‘–quote-name’
‘–quoting-style=c’
Enclose file names in double quotes and quote nongraphic characters as
in C.
‘–quoting-style=word’ ¶
Use style word to quote file names and other strings that may contain
arbitrary characters. The word should be one of the following:
‘literal’
Output strings as-is; this is the same as the –literal (-N) option.
‘shell’
Quote strings for the shell if they contain shell metacharacters or
would cause ambiguous output. The quoting is suitable for
POSIX-compatible shells like bash, but it does not always work for
incompatible shells like csh.
‘shell-always’
Quote strings for the shell, even if they would normally not require
quoting.
‘shell-escape’
Like ‘shell’, but also quote non-printable characters using the POSIX
‘$’’’ syntax suitable for most shells. This is the most general format
as any file name is represented unambiguously and safely. I.e., the full
quoted string can be pasted back to the shell to refer to any file.
Consequently, this is the default format used when ls is outputting to a
tty. Note also that specifying the C locale with LC_ALL=C can be useful
with this output format, to avoid character set conversion issues with
some terminals; e.g., xterm always converting to unicode composed form.
See also Quoting file names.
‘shell-escape-always’
Like ‘shell-escape’, but quote strings even if they would normally not
require quoting.
‘c’
Quote strings as for C character string literals, including the
surrounding double-quote characters; this is the same as the –quote-name
(-Q) option.
‘c-maybe’
Quote strings as for C character string literals, except omit the
surrounding double-quote if no escaping is required.
‘escape’
Quote strings as for C character string literals, except omit the
surrounding double-quote characters; this is the same as the –escape
(-b) option.
‘clocale’
Quote strings as for C character string literals, except use surrounding
quotation marks appropriate for the locale.
‘locale’
Quote strings as for C character string literals, except use surrounding
quotation marks appropriate for the locale, and quote ‘like this’
instead of "like this" in the default C locale. This looks nicer on many
displays.
‘–show-control-chars’ ¶
Print nongraphic characters as-is in file names. This is the default
unless the output is a terminal and the program is ls.
Next: vdir: Verbosely list directory contents, Previous: ls: List
directory contents, Up: Directory listing   [Contents][Index]

10.2 dir: Briefly list directory contents ¶

dir is equivalent to ls -C -b; that is, by default files are listed in
columns, sorted vertically, and special characters are represented by
backslash escape sequences.
See ls.
Next: dircolors: Color setup for ls, Previous: dir: Briefly list
directory contents, Up: Directory listing   [Contents][Index]

10.3 vdir: Verbosely list directory contents ¶

vdir is equivalent to ls -l -b; that is, by default files are listed in
long format and special characters are represented by backslash escape
sequences.
See ls.
Previous: vdir: Verbosely list directory contents, Up: Directory listing
  [Contents][Index]

10.4 dircolors: Color setup for ls ¶

dircolors outputs a sequence of shell commands to set up the terminal
for color output from ls (and dir, etc.). Typical usage:

If file is specified, dircolors reads it to determine which colors to
use for which file types and extensions. Otherwise, a precompiled
database is used. For details on the format of these files, run
‘dircolors –print-database’.
To make dircolors read a ~/.dircolors file if it exists, you can put the
following lines in your ~/.bashrc (or adapt them to your favorite
shell):

The output is a shell command to set the LS_COLORS environment variable.
You can specify the shell syntax to use on the command line, or
dircolors will guess it from the value of the SHELL environment
variable.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–sh’
‘–bourne-shell’
Output Bourne shell commands. This is the default if the SHELL
environment variable is set and does not end with ‘csh’ or ‘tcsh’.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–csh’
‘–c-shell’
Output C shell commands. This is the default if SHELL ends with csh or
tcsh.
‘-p’ ¶
‘–print-database’
Print the (compiled-in) default color configuration database. This
output is itself a valid configuration file, and is fairly descriptive
of the possibilities.
‘–print-ls-colors’ ¶
Print the LS_COLORS entries on separate lines, each colored as per the
color they represent.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: Special file types, Previous: Directory listing, Up: GNU Coreutils
  [Contents][Index]

11 Basic operations ¶

This chapter describes the commands for basic file manipulation:
copying, moving (renaming), and deleting (removing).
cp: Copy files and directories
dd: Convert and copy a file
install: Copy files and set attributes
mv: Move (rename) files
rm: Remove files or directories
shred: Remove files more securely
Next: dd: Convert and copy a file, Up: Basic operations  
[Contents][Index]

11.1 cp: Copy files and directories ¶

cp copies files (or, optionally, directories). The copy is completely
independent of the original. You can either copy one file to another, or
copy arbitrarily many files to a destination directory. Synopses:

If two file names are given, cp copies the first file to the second.

If the –target-directory (-t) option is given, or failing that if the
last file is a directory and the –no-target-directory (-T) option is not
given, cp copies each source file to the specified directory, using the
sources’ names.
Generally, files are written just as they are read. For exceptions, see
the –sparse option below.
By default, cp does not copy directories. However, the -R, -a, and -r
options cause cp to copy recursively by descending into source
directories and copying files to corresponding destination directories.
When copying from a symbolic link, cp normally follows the link only
when not copying recursively or when –link (-l) is used. This default
can be overridden with the –archive (-a), -d, –dereference (-L),
–no-dereference (-P), and -H options. If more than one of these options
is specified, the last one silently overrides the others.
When copying to a symbolic link, cp follows the link only when it refers
to an existing regular file. However, when copying to a dangling
symbolic link, cp refuses by default, and fails with a diagnostic, since
the operation is inherently dangerous. This behavior is contrary to
historical practice and to POSIX. Set POSIXLY_CORRECT to make cp attempt
to create the target of a dangling destination symlink, in spite of the
possible risk. Also, when an option like –backup or –link acts to rename
or remove the destination before copying, cp renames or removes the
symbolic link rather than the file it points to.
By default, cp copies the contents of special files only when not
copying recursively. This default can be overridden with the
–copy-contents option.
cp generally refuses to copy a file onto itself, with the following
exception: if –force –backup is specified with source and dest
identical, and referring to a regular file, cp will make a backup file,
either regular or numbered, as specified in the usual ways (see Backup
options). This is useful when you simply want to make a backup of an
existing file before changing it.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-a’ ¶
‘–archive’
Preserve as much as possible of the structure and attributes of the
original files in the copy (but do not attempt to preserve internal
directory structure; i.e., ‘ls -U’ may list the entries in a copied
directory in a different order). Try to preserve SELinux security
context and extended attributes (xattr), but ignore any failure to do
that and print no corresponding diagnostic. Equivalent to -dR
–preserve=all with the reduced diagnostics.
‘–attributes-only’ ¶
Copy only the specified attributes of the source file to the
destination. If the destination already exists, do not alter its
contents. See the –preserve option for controlling which attributes to
copy.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–backup[=method]’
See Backup options. Make a backup of each file that would otherwise be
overwritten or removed. As a special case, cp makes a backup of source
when the force and backup options are given and source and dest are the
same name for an existing, regular file. One useful application of this
combination of options is this tiny Bourne shell script:

‘–copy-contents’ ¶
If copying recursively, copy the contents of any special files (e.g.,
FIFOs and device files) as if they were regular files. This means trying
to read the data in each source file and writing it to the destination.
It is usually a mistake to use this option, as it normally has
undesirable effects on special files like FIFOs and the ones typically
found in the /dev directory. In most cases, cp -R –copy-contents will
hang indefinitely trying to read from FIFOs and special files like
/dev/console, and it will fill up your destination file system if you
use it to copy /dev/zero. This option has no effect unless copying
recursively, and it does not affect the copying of symbolic links.
‘-d’ ¶
Copy symbolic links as symbolic links rather than copying the files that
they point to, and preserve hard links between source files in the
copies. Equivalent to –no-dereference –preserve=links.
‘–debug’ ¶
Print extra information to standard output, explaining how files are
copied. This option implies the –verbose option.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–force’
When copying without this option and an existing destination file cannot
be opened for writing, the copy fails. However, with –force, when a
destination file cannot be opened, cp then tries to recreate the file by
first removing it. The –force option alone will not remove dangling
symlinks. When this option is combined with –link (-l) or –symbolic-link
(-s), the destination link is replaced, and unless –backup (-b) is also
given there is no brief moment when the destination does not exist. Also
see the description of –remove-destination.
This option is independent of the –interactive or -i option: neither
cancels the effect of the other.
This option is ignored when the –no-clobber or -n option is also used.
‘-i’ ¶
‘–interactive’
When copying a file other than a directory, prompt whether to overwrite
an existing destination file, and fail if the response is not
affirmative. The -i option overrides a previous -n option.
‘-H’ ¶
If a command line argument specifies a symbolic link, then copy the file
it points to rather than the symbolic link itself. However, copy
(preserving its nature) any symbolic link that is encountered via
recursive traversal.
‘-L’ ¶
‘–dereference’
Follow symbolic links when copying from them. With this option, cp
cannot create a symbolic link. For example, a symlink (to regular file)
in the source tree will be copied to a regular file in the destination
tree.
‘-P’ ¶
‘–no-dereference’
Copy symbolic links as symbolic links rather than copying the files that
they point to. This option affects only symbolic links in the source;
symbolic links in the destination are always followed if possible.
‘–keep-directory-symlink’ ¶
Follow existing symlinks to directories when copying. Use this option
only when the destination directory’s contents are trusted, as an
attacker can place symlinks in the destination to cause cp write to
arbitrary target directories.
‘-l’ ¶
‘–link’
Make hard links instead of copies of non-directories.
‘-n’ ¶
‘–no-clobber’
Do not overwrite an existing file; silently skip instead. This option
overrides a previous -i option. This option is mutually exclusive with
-b or –backup option. This option is deprecated due to having a
different exit status from other platforms. See also the –update option
which will give more control over how to deal with existing files in the
destination, and over the exit status in particular.
‘-p’ ¶
‘–preserve[=attribute_list]’
Preserve the specified attributes of the original files. If specified,
the attribute_list must be a comma-separated list of one or more of the
following strings:
‘mode’ ¶
Preserve attributes relevant to access permissions, including file mode
bits and (if possible) access control lists (ACLs). ACL preservation is
system-dependent, and ACLs are not necessarily translated when the
source and destination are on file systems with different ACL formats
(e.g., NFSv4 versus POSIX formats).
‘ownership’
Preserve the owner and group. On most modern systems, only users with
appropriate privileges may change the owner of a file, and ordinary
users may preserve the group ownership of a file only if they happen to
be a member of the desired group.
‘timestamps’
Preserve the times of last access and last modification, when possible.
On older systems, it is not possible to preserve these attributes when
the affected file is a symbolic link. However, many systems now provide
the utimensat function, which makes it possible even for symbolic links.
‘links’
Preserve in the destination files any links between corresponding source
files. With -L or -H, this option can convert symbolic links to hard
links. For example,

Although b is a symlink to regular file a, the files in the destination
directory c/ are hard-linked. Since -a implies –no-dereference it would
copy the symlink, but the later -H tells cp to dereference the command
line arguments where it then sees two files with the same inode number.
Then the –preserve=links option also implied by -a will preserve the
perceived hard link.
Here is a similar example that exercises cp’s -L option:

‘context’
Preserve SELinux security context of the file, or fail with full
diagnostics.
‘xattr’ ¶
Preserve extended attributes of the file, or fail with full diagnostics.
If cp is built without xattr support, ignore this option. If SELinux
context, ACLs or Capabilities are implemented using xattrs, they are
preserved implicitly by this option as well, i.e., even without
specifying –preserve=mode or –preserve=context.
‘all’
Preserve all file attributes. Equivalent to specifying all of the above,
but with the difference that failure to preserve SELinux security
context or extended attributes does not change cp’s exit status. In
contrast to -a, all but ‘Operation not supported’ warnings are output.
Using –preserve with no attribute_list is equivalent to
–preserve=mode,ownership,timestamps.
In the absence of this option, the permissions of existing destination
files are unchanged. Each new file is created with the mode of the
corresponding source file minus the set-user-ID, set-group-ID, and
sticky bits as the create mode; the operating system then applies either
the umask or a default ACL, possibly resulting in a more restrictive
file mode. See File permissions.
‘–no-preserve=attribute_list’ ¶
Do not preserve the specified attributes. The attribute_list has the
same form as for –preserve.
‘–parents’ ¶
Form the name of each destination file by appending to the target
directory a slash and the specified name of the source file. The last
argument given to cp must be the name of an existing directory. For
example, the command:

copies the file a/b/c to existing_dir/a/b/c, creating any missing
intermediate directories.
‘-r’ ¶
‘-R’
‘–recursive’
Copy directories recursively. By default, do not follow symbolic links
in the source unless used together with the –link (-l) option; see the
–archive (-a), -d, –dereference (-L), –no-dereference (-P), and -H
options. Special files are copied by creating a destination file of the
same type as the source; see the –copy-contents option. It is not
portable to use -r to copy symbolic links or special files. On some
non-GNU systems, -r implies the equivalent of -L and –copy-contents for
historical reasons. Also, it is not portable to use -R to copy symbolic
links unless you also specify -P, as POSIX allows implementations that
dereference symbolic links by default.
‘–reflink[=when]’ ¶
Perform a lightweight, copy-on-write (COW) copy, if supported by the
file system. Once it has succeeded, beware that the source and
destination files share the same data blocks as long as they remain
unmodified. Thus, if an I/O error affects data blocks of one of the
files, the other suffers the same fate.
The when value can be one of the following:
‘always’
If the copy-on-write operation is not supported then report the failure
for each file and exit with a failure status. Plain –reflink is
equivalent to –reflink=always.
‘auto’
If the copy-on-write operation is not supported then fall back to the
standard copy behavior. This is the default if no –reflink option is
given.
‘never’
Disable copy-on-write operation and use the standard copy behavior.
This option is overridden by the –link, –symbolic-link and
–attributes-only options, thus allowing it to be used to configure the
default data copying behavior for cp.
‘–remove-destination’ ¶
Remove each existing destination file before attempting to open it
(contrast with -f above).
‘–sparse=when’ ¶
A sparse file contains holes – a sequence of zero bytes that does not
occupy any file system blocks; the ‘read’ system call reads these as
zeros. This can both save considerable space and increase speed, since
many binary files contain lots of consecutive zero bytes. By default, cp
detects holes in input source files via a crude heuristic and makes the
corresponding output file sparse as well. Only regular files may be
sparse.
The when value can be one of the following:
‘auto’
The default behavior: if the input file is sparse, attempt to make the
output file sparse, too. However, if an output file exists but refers to
a non-regular file, then do not attempt to make it sparse.
‘always’
For each sufficiently long sequence of zero bytes in the input file,
attempt to create a corresponding hole in the output file, even if the
input file does not appear to be sparse. This is useful when the input
file resides on a file system that does not support sparse files (for
example, ‘efs’ file systems in SGI IRIX 5.3 and earlier), but the output
file is on a type of file system that does support them. Holes may be
created only in regular files, so if the destination file is of some
other type, cp does not even try to make it sparse.
‘never’
Never make the output file sparse. This is useful in creating a file for
use with the mkswap command, since such a file must not have any holes.
For example, with the following alias, cp will use the minimum amount of
space supported by the file system. (Older versions of cp can also
benefit from –reflink=auto here.)

‘–strip-trailing-slashes’ ¶
Remove any trailing slashes from each source argument. See Trailing
slashes.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–symbolic-link’
Make symbolic links instead of copies of non-directories. All source
file names must be absolute (starting with ‘/’) unless the destination
files are in the current directory. This option merely results in an
error message on systems that do not support symbolic links.
‘-S suffix’ ¶
‘–suffix=suffix’
Append suffix to each backup file made with -b. See Backup options.
‘-t directory’ ¶
‘–target-directory=directory’
Specify the destination directory. See Target directory.
‘-T’ ¶
‘–no-target-directory’
Do not treat the last operand specially when it is a directory or a
symbolic link to a directory. See Target directory.
‘-u’ ¶
‘–update[=which]’
Do not copy a non-directory that has an existing destination with the
same or newer modification timestamp; instead, silently skip the file
without failing. If timestamps are being preserved, the comparison is to
the source timestamp truncated to the resolutions of the destination
file system and of the system calls used to update timestamps; this
avoids duplicate work if several ‘cp -pu’ commands are executed with the
same source and destination. This option is ignored if the -n or
–no-clobber option is also specified. Also, if –preserve=links is also
specified (like with ‘cp -au’ for example), that will take precedence;
consequently, depending on the order that files are processed from the
source, newer files in the destination may be replaced, to mirror hard
links in the source.
which gives more control over which existing files in the destination
are replaced, and its value can be one of the following:
‘all’
This is the default operation when an –update option is not specified,
and results in all existing files in the destination being replaced.
‘none’
This is like the deprecated –no-clobber option, where no files in the
destination are replaced, and also skipping a file does not induce a
failure.
‘none-fail’
This is similar to ‘none’, in that no files in the destination are
replaced, but any skipped files are diagnosed and induce a failure.
‘older’
This is the default operation when –update is specified, and results in
files being replaced if they’re older than the corresponding source
file.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Print the name of each file before copying it.
‘-x’ ¶
‘–one-file-system’
Skip subdirectories that are on different file systems from the one that
the copy started on. However, mount point directories are copied.
‘-Z’ ¶
‘–context[=context]’
Without a specified context, adjust the SELinux security context
according to the system default type for destination files, similarly to
the restorecon command. The long form of this option with a specific
context specified, will set the context for newly created files only.
With a specified context, if both SELinux and SMACK are disabled, a
warning is issued. This option is mutually exclusive with the
–preserve=context option, and overrides the –preserve=all and -a
options.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: install: Copy files and set attributes, Previous: cp: Copy files
and directories, Up: Basic operations   [Contents][Index]

11.2 dd: Convert and copy a file ¶

dd copies input to output with a changeable I/O block size, while
optionally performing conversions on the data. Synopses:

The only options are –help and –version. See Common options.
By default, dd copies standard input to standard output. To copy, dd
repeatedly does the following steps in order:
Read an input block.

If converting via ‘sync’, pad as needed to meet the input block size.
Pad with spaces if converting via ‘block’ or ‘unblock’, NUL bytes
otherwise.

If ‘bs=’ is given and no conversion mentioned in steps (4) or (5) is
given, output the data as a single block and skip all remaining steps.

If the ‘swab’ conversion is given, swap each pair of input bytes. If the
input data length is odd, preserve the last input byte (since there is
nothing to swap it with).

If any of the conversions ‘swab’, ‘block’, ‘unblock’, ‘lcase’, ‘ucase’,
‘ascii’, ‘ebcdic’ and ‘ibm’ are given, do these conversions. These
conversions operate independently of input blocking, and might deal with
records that span block boundaries.

Aggregate the resulting data into output blocks of the specified size,
and output each output block in turn. Do not pad the last output block;
it can be shorter than usual.
dd accepts the following operands, whose syntax was inspired by the DD
(data definition) statement of OS/360 JCL.
‘if=file’ ¶
Read from file instead of standard input.
‘of=file’ ¶
Write to file instead of standard output. Unless ‘conv=notrunc’ is
given, truncate file before writing it.
‘ibs=bytes’ ¶
Set the input block size to bytes. This makes dd read bytes per block.
The default is 512 bytes.
‘obs=bytes’ ¶
Set the output block size to bytes. This makes dd write bytes per block.
The default is 512 bytes.
‘bs=bytes’ ¶
Set both input and output block sizes to bytes. This makes dd read and
write bytes per block, overriding any ‘ibs’ and ‘obs’ settings. In
addition, if no data-transforming conv operand is specified, input is
copied to the output as soon as it’s read, even if it is smaller than
the block size.
‘cbs=bytes’ ¶
Set the conversion block size to bytes. When converting variable-length
records to fixed-length ones (conv=block) or the reverse (conv=unblock),
use bytes as the fixed record length.
‘skip=n’ ¶
‘iseek=n’
Skip n ‘ibs’-byte blocks in the input file before copying. If n ends in
the letter ‘B’, interpret n as a byte count rather than a block count.
(‘B’ and the ‘iseek=’ spelling are GNU extensions to POSIX.)
‘seek=n’ ¶
‘oseek=n’
Skip n ‘obs’-byte blocks in the output file before truncating or
copying. If n ends in the letter ‘B’, interpret n as a byte count rather
than a block count. (‘B’ and the ‘oseek=’ spelling are GNU extensions to
POSIX.)
‘count=n’ ¶
Copy n ‘ibs’-byte blocks from the input file, instead of everything
until the end of the file. If n ends in the letter ‘B’, interpret n as a
byte count rather than a block count; this is a GNU extension to POSIX.
If short reads occur, as could be the case when reading from a pipe for
example, ‘iflag=fullblock’ ensures that ‘count=’ counts complete input
blocks rather than input read operations. As an extension to POSIX,
‘count=0’ copies zero blocks instead of copying all blocks.
‘status=level’ ¶
Specify the amount of information printed. If this operand is given
multiple times, the last one takes precedence. The level value can be
one of the following:
‘none’ ¶
Do not print any informational or warning messages to standard error.
Error messages are output as normal.
‘noxfer’ ¶
Do not print the final transfer rate and volume statistics that normally
make up the last status line.
‘progress’ ¶
Print the transfer rate and volume statistics on standard error, when
processing each input block. Statistics are output on a single line at
most once every second, but updates can be delayed when waiting on I/O.
Transfer information is normally output to standard error upon receipt
of the ‘INFO’ signal or when dd exits, and defaults to the following
form in the C locale:

The notation ‘w+p’ stands for w whole blocks and p partial blocks. A
partial block occurs when a read or write operation succeeds but
transfers less data than the block size. An additional line like ‘1
truncated record’ or ‘10 truncated records’ is output after the ‘records
out’ line if ‘conv=block’ processing truncated one or more input
records.
The ‘status=’ operand is a GNU extension to POSIX.
‘conv=conversion[,conversion]…’ ¶
Convert the file as specified by the conversion argument(s). (No spaces
around any comma(s).)
Conversions:
‘ascii’ ¶
Convert EBCDIC to ASCII, using the conversion table specified by POSIX.
This provides a 1:1 translation for all 256 bytes. This implies
‘conv=unblock’; input is converted to ASCII before trailing spaces are
deleted.
‘ebcdic’ ¶
Convert ASCII to EBCDIC. This is the inverse of the ‘ascii’ conversion.
This implies ‘conv=block’; trailing spaces are added before being
converted to EBCDIC.
‘ibm’ ¶
This acts like ‘conv=ebcdic’, except it uses the alternate conversion
table specified by POSIX. This is not a 1:1 translation, but reflects
common historical practice for ‘~’, ‘[’, and ‘]’.
The ‘ascii’, ‘ebcdic’, and ‘ibm’ conversions are mutually exclusive. If
you use any of these conversions, you should also use the ‘cbs=’
operand.
‘block’ ¶
For each line in the input, output ‘cbs’ bytes, replacing the input
newline with a space and truncating or padding input lines with spaces
as necessary.
‘unblock’ ¶
Remove any trailing spaces in each ‘cbs’-sized input block, and append a
newline.
The ‘block’ and ‘unblock’ conversions are mutually exclusive. If you use
either of these conversions, you should also use the ‘cbs=’ operand.
‘lcase’ ¶
Change uppercase letters to lowercase.
‘ucase’ ¶
Change lowercase letters to uppercase.
The ‘lcase’ and ‘ucase’ conversions are mutually exclusive.
POSIX leaves the behavior of ‘lcase’ and ‘ucase’ unspecified on
multibyte characters. GNU dd supports only unibyte conversion, because
multibyte characters may cross block boundaries and case conversion may
change the length of characters.
POSIX also leaves the behavior of ‘lcase’ and ‘ucase’ unspecified if
used with ‘ascii’, ‘ebcdic’, or ‘ibm’. GNU dd will perform the case
conversion and then perform the character set conversion.
‘sparse’ ¶
Try to seek rather than write NUL output blocks. On a file system that
supports sparse files, this will create sparse output when extending the
output file. Be careful when using this conversion in conjunction with
‘conv=notrunc’ or ‘oflag=append’. With ‘conv=notrunc’, existing data in
the output file corresponding to NUL blocks from the input, will be
untouched. With ‘oflag=append’ the seeks performed will be ineffective.
Similarly, when the output is a device rather than a file, NUL input
blocks are not copied, and therefore this conversion is most useful with
virtual or pre zeroed devices.
The ‘sparse’ conversion is a GNU extension to POSIX.
‘swab’ ¶
Swap every pair of input bytes.
‘sync’ ¶
Pad every input block to size of ‘ibs’ with trailing zero bytes. When
used with ‘block’ or ‘unblock’, pad with spaces instead of zero bytes.
The following “conversions” are really file flags and don’t affect
internal processing:
‘excl’ ¶
Fail if the output file already exists; dd must create the output file
itself.
‘nocreat’ ¶
Do not create the output file; the output file must already exist.
The ‘excl’ and ‘nocreat’ conversions are mutually exclusive, and are GNU
extensions to POSIX.
‘notrunc’ ¶
Do not truncate the output file.
‘noerror’ ¶
Continue after read errors.
‘fdatasync’ ¶
Synchronize output data just before finishing, even if there were write
errors. This forces a physical write of output data, so that even if
power is lost the output data will be preserved. If neither this nor
‘fsync’ are specified, output is treated as usual with file systems,
i.e., output data and metadata may be cached in primary memory for some
time before the operating system physically writes it, and thus output
data and metadata may be lost if power is lost. See sync: Synchronize
cached writes to persistent storage. This conversion is a GNU extension
to POSIX.
‘fsync’ ¶
Synchronize output data and metadata just before finishing, even if
there were write errors. This acts like ‘fdatasync’ except it also
preserves output metadata, such as the last-modified time of the output
file; for this reason it may be a bit slower than ‘fdatasync’ although
the performance difference is typically insignificant for dd. This
conversion is a GNU extension to POSIX.
‘iflag=flag[,flag]…’ ¶
Access the input file using the flags specified by the flag argument(s).
(No spaces around any comma(s).)
‘oflag=flag[,flag]…’ ¶
Access the output file using the flags specified by the flag
argument(s). (No spaces around any comma(s).)
Here are the flags.
‘append’ ¶
Write in append mode, so that even if some other process is writing to
this file, every dd write will append to the current contents of the
file. This flag makes sense only for output. If you combine this flag
with the ‘of=file’ operand, you should also specify ‘conv=notrunc’
unless you want the output file to be truncated before being appended
to.
‘cio’ ¶
Use concurrent I/O mode for data. This mode performs direct I/O and
drops the POSIX requirement to serialize all I/O to the same file. A
file cannot be opened in CIO mode and with a standard open at the same
time.
‘direct’ ¶
Use direct I/O for data, avoiding the buffer cache. The kernel may
impose restrictions on read or write buffer sizes. For example, with an
ext4 destination file system and a Linux-based kernel, using
‘oflag=direct’ will cause writes to fail with EINVAL if the output
buffer size is not a multiple of 512.
‘directory’ ¶
Fail unless the file is a directory. Most operating systems do not allow
I/O to a directory, so this flag has limited utility.
‘dsync’ ¶
Use synchronized I/O for data. For the output file, this forces a
physical write of output data on each write. For the input file, this
flag can matter when reading from a remote file that has been written to
synchronously by some other process. Metadata (e.g., last-access and
last-modified time) is not necessarily synchronized.
‘sync’ ¶
Use synchronized I/O for both data and metadata.
‘nocache’ ¶
Request to discard the system data cache for a file. When count=0 all
cached data for the file is specified, otherwise the cache is dropped
for the processed portion of the file. Also when count=0, failure to
discard the cache is diagnosed and reflected in the exit status.
Because data not already persisted to storage is not discarded from the
cache, the ‘sync’ conversions in the following examples maximize the
effectiveness of the ‘nocache’ flag.
Here are some usage examples:

‘nonblock’ ¶
Use non-blocking I/O.
‘noatime’ ¶
Do not update the file’s access timestamp. See File timestamps. Some
older file systems silently ignore this flag, so it is a good idea to
test it on your files before relying on it.
‘noctty’ ¶
Do not assign the file to be a controlling terminal for dd. This has no
effect when the file is not a terminal. On many hosts (e.g., GNU/Linux
hosts), this flag has no effect at all.
‘nofollow’ ¶
Do not follow symbolic links.
‘nolinks’ ¶
Fail if the file has multiple hard links.
‘binary’ ¶
Use binary I/O. This flag has an effect only on nonstandard platforms
that distinguish binary from text I/O.
‘text’ ¶
Use text I/O. Like ‘binary’, this flag has no effect on standard
platforms.
‘fullblock’ ¶
Accumulate full blocks from input. The read system call may return early
if a full block is not available. When that happens, continue calling
read to fill the remainder of the block. This flag can be used only with
iflag. This flag is useful with pipes for example as they may return
short reads. In that case, this flag is needed to ensure that a ‘count=’
argument is interpreted as a block count rather than a count of read
operations.
These flags are all GNU extensions to POSIX, except for ‘fullblock’
which was added by POSIX.1-2024. They are not supported on all systems,
and ‘dd’ rejects attempts to use them when they are not supported. When
reading from standard input or writing to standard output, the
‘nofollow’ and ‘noctty’ flags should not be specified, and the other
flags (e.g., ‘nonblock’) can affect how other processes behave with the
affected file descriptors, even after dd exits.
The behavior of dd is unspecified if operands other than ‘conv=’,
‘iflag=’, ‘oflag=’, and ‘status=’ are specified more than once.
The numeric-valued strings above (n and bytes) are unsigned decimal
integers that can be followed by a multiplier: ‘b’=512, ‘c’=1, ‘w’=2,
‘xm’=m, or any of the standard block size suffixes like ‘k’=1024 (see
Block size). These multipliers are GNU extensions to POSIX, except that
POSIX allows bytes to be followed by ‘k’, ‘b’, and ‘xm’. An ‘xm’ can be
used more than once in a number. Block sizes (i.e., specified by bytes
strings) must be nonzero.
Any block size you specify via ‘bs=’, ‘ibs=’, ‘obs=’, ‘cbs=’ should not
be too large – values larger than a few megabytes are generally wasteful
or (as in the gigabyte..exabyte case) downright counterproductive or
error-inducing.
To process data with offset or size that is not a multiple of the I/O
block size, you can use a numeric string n that ends in the letter ‘B’.
For example, the following shell commands copy data in 1 MiB blocks
between a flash drive and a tape, but do not save or restore a 512-byte
area at the start of the flash drive:

For failing storage devices, other tools come with a great variety of
extra functionality to ease the saving of as much data as possible
before the device finally dies, e.g. GNU ddrescue. However, in some
cases such a tool is not available or the administrator feels more
comfortable with the handling of dd. As a simple rescue method, call dd
as shown in the following example: the operand ‘conv=noerror,sync’ is
used to continue after read errors and to pad out bad reads with NULs,
while ‘iflag=fullblock’ caters for short reads (which traditionally
never occur on flash or similar devices):

Sending an ‘INFO’ signal (or ‘USR1’ signal where that is unavailable) to
a running dd process makes it print I/O statistics to standard error and
then resume copying. In the example below, dd is run in the background
to copy 5GB of data. The kill command makes it output intermediate I/O
statistics, and when dd completes normally or is killed by the SIGINT
signal, it outputs the final statistics.

The above script will output in the following format:

The ‘status=progress’ operand periodically updates the last line of the
transfer statistics above.
On systems lacking the ‘INFO’ signal dd responds to the ‘USR1’ signal
instead, unless the POSIXLY_CORRECT environment variable is set.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: mv: Move (rename) files, Previous: dd: Convert and copy a file,
Up: Basic operations   [Contents][Index]

11.3 install: Copy files and set attributes ¶

install copies files while setting their file mode bits and, if
possible, their owner and group. Synopses:

If two file names are given, install copies the first file to the
second.

If the –target-directory (-t) option is given, or failing that if the
last file is a directory and the –no-target-directory (-T) option is not
given, install copies each source file to the specified directory, using
the sources’ names.

If the –directory (-d) option is given, install creates each directory
and any missing parent directories. Parent directories are created with
mode ‘u=rwx,go=rx’ (755), regardless of the -m option or the current
umask. See Directories and the Set-User-ID and Set-Group-ID Bits, for
how the set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits of parent directories are
inherited.
install is similar to cp, but allows you to control the attributes of
destination files. It is typically used in Makefiles to copy programs
into their destination directories. It refuses to copy files onto
themselves.
install never preserves extended attributes (xattr).
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–backup[=method]’
See Backup options. Make a backup of each file that would otherwise be
overwritten or removed.
‘-C’ ¶
‘–compare’
Compare content of source and destination files, and if there would be
no change to the destination content, owner, group, permissions, and
possibly SELinux context, then do not modify the destination at all.
This option is best used in conjunction with –user, –group and –mode
options, lest install incorrectly determines the default attributes that
installed files would have (as it doesn’t consider setgid directories
and POSIX default ACLs for example). This could result in redundant
copies or attributes that are not reset to the correct defaults.
‘-c’ ¶
Ignored; for compatibility with old Unix versions of install.
‘-D’ ¶
Create any missing parent directories of dest, then copy source to dest.
Explicitly specifying the –target-directory=dir will similarly ensure
the presence of that hierarchy before copying source arguments.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–directory’
Create any missing parent directories, giving them the default
attributes. Then create each given directory, setting their owner, group
and mode as given on the command line or to the defaults.
‘–debug’ ¶
Print extra information to standard output, explaining how files are
copied. This option implies the –verbose option.
‘-g group’ ¶
‘–group=group’
Set the group ownership of installed files or directories to group. The
default is the process’s current group. group may be either a group name
or a numeric group ID.
‘-m mode’ ¶
‘–mode=mode’
Set the file mode bits for the installed file or directory to mode,
which can be either an octal number, or a symbolic mode as in chmod,
with ‘a=’ (no access allowed to anyone) as the point of departure (see
File permissions). The default mode is ‘u=rwx,go=rx,a-s’ – read, write,
and execute for the owner, read and execute for group and other, and
with set-user-ID and set-group-ID disabled. This default is not quite
the same as ‘755’, since it disables instead of preserving set-user-ID
and set-group-ID on directories. See Directories and the Set-User-ID and
Set-Group-ID Bits.
‘-o owner’ ¶
‘–owner=owner’
If install has appropriate privileges (is run as root), set the
ownership of installed files or directories to owner. The default is
root. owner may be either a user name or a numeric user ID.
‘–preserve-context’ ¶
Preserve the SELinux security context of files and directories. Failure
to preserve the context in all of the files or directories will result
in an exit status of 1. If SELinux is disabled then print a warning and
ignore the option.
‘-p’ ¶
‘–preserve-timestamps’
Set the time of last access and the time of last modification of each
installed file to match those of each corresponding original file. When
a file is installed without this option, its last access and last
modification timestamps are both set to the time of installation. This
option is useful if you want to use the last modification timestamps of
installed files to keep track of when they were last built as opposed to
when they were last installed.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–strip’
Strip the symbol tables from installed binary executables.
‘–strip-program=program’ ¶
Program used to strip binaries.
‘-S suffix’ ¶
‘–suffix=suffix’
Append suffix to each backup file made with -b. See Backup options.
‘-t directory’ ¶
‘–target-directory=directory’
Specify the destination directory. See Target directory. Also specifying
the -D option will ensure the directory is present.
‘-T’ ¶
‘–no-target-directory’
Do not treat the last operand specially when it is a directory or a
symbolic link to a directory. See Target directory.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Print the name of each file before copying it.
‘-Z’ ¶
‘–context[=context]’
Without a specified context, adjust the SELinux security context
according to the system default type for destination files, similarly to
the restorecon command. The long form of this option with a specific
context specified, will set the context for newly created files only.
With a specified context, if both SELinux and SMACK are disabled, a
warning is issued. This option is mutually exclusive with the
–preserve-context option.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: rm: Remove files or directories, Previous: install: Copy files and
set attributes, Up: Basic operations   [Contents][Index]

11.4 mv: Move (rename) files ¶

mv moves or renames files (or directories). Synopses:

If two file names are given, mv moves the first file to the second.

If the –target-directory (-t) option is given, or failing that if the
last file is a directory and the –no-target-directory (-T) option is not
given, mv moves each source file to the specified directory, using the
sources’ names.
To move a file, mv ordinarily simply renames it. However, if renaming
does not work because the destination’s file system differs, mv falls
back on copying as if by cp -a, then (assuming the copy succeeded) it
removes the original. If the copy fails, then mv removes any partially
created copy in the destination. If you were to copy three directories
from one file system to another and the copy of the first directory
succeeded, but the second didn’t, the first would be left on the
destination file system and the second and third would be left on the
original file system.
mv always tries to copy extended attributes (xattr), which may include
SELinux context, ACLs or Capabilities. Upon failure all but ‘Operation
not supported’ warnings are output.
If a destination file exists but is normally unwritable, standard input
is a terminal, and the -f or –force option is not given, mv prompts the
user for whether to replace the file. (You might own the file, or have
write permission on its directory.) If the response is not affirmative,
the file is skipped.
Avoid specifying a source name with a trailing slash, when it might be a
symlink to a directory. Otherwise, mv may do something very surprising,
since its behavior depends on the underlying rename system call. On a
system with a modern Linux-based kernel, it fails with errno=ENOTDIR.
However, on other systems (at least FreeBSD 6.1 and Solaris 10) it
silently renames not the symlink but rather the directory referenced by
the symlink. See Trailing slashes.
The mv command replaces destination directories only if they are empty.
Conflicting populated directories are skipped with a diagnostic.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–backup[=method]’
See Backup options. Make a backup of each file that would otherwise be
overwritten or removed.
‘–debug’ ¶
Print extra information to standard output, explaining how files are
copied. This option implies the –verbose option.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–force’
Do not prompt the user before replacing a destination file. If you
specify more than one of the -i, -f, -n options, only the final one
takes effect.
‘-i’ ¶
‘–interactive’
Prompt whether to overwrite each existing destination file, regardless
of its permissions, and fail if the response is not affirmative. If you
specify more than one of the -i, -f, -n options, only the final one
takes effect.
‘-n’ ¶
‘–no-clobber’
Do not overwrite an existing file; silently fail instead. If you specify
more than one of the -i, -f, -n options, only the final one takes
effect. This option is mutually exclusive with -b or –backup option. See
also the –update=none option which will skip existing files but not
fail.
‘–no-copy’ ¶
If a file cannot be renamed because the destination file system differs,
fail with a diagnostic instead of copying and then removing the file.
‘–exchange’ ¶
Exchange source and destination instead of renaming source to
destination. Both files must exist; they need not be the same type. This
exchanges all data and metadata.
This option can be used to replace one directory with another. When used
this way, it should be combined with –no-target-directory (-T) to avoid
confusion about the destination location. For example, you might use ‘mv
-T –exchange d1 d2’ to exchange two directories d1 and d2.
Exchanges are atomic if the source and destination are both in a single
file system that supports atomic exchange. Non-atomic exchanges are not
yet supported.
If the source and destination might not be on the same file system,
using –no-copy will prevent future versions of mv from implementing the
exchange by copying.
‘-u’ ¶
‘–update’
Do not move a non-directory that has an existing destination with the
same or newer modification timestamp; instead, silently skip the file
without failing. If the move is across file system boundaries, the
comparison is to the source timestamp truncated to the resolutions of
the destination file system and of the system calls used to update
timestamps; this avoids duplicate work if several ‘mv -u’ commands are
executed with the same source and destination. This option is ignored if
the -n or –no-clobber option is also specified.
which gives more control over which existing files in the destination
are replaced, and its value can be one of the following:
‘all’
This is the default operation when an –update option is not specified,
and results in all existing files in the destination being replaced.
‘none’
This is like the deprecated –no-clobber option, where no files in the
destination are replaced, and also skipping a file does not induce a
failure.
‘none-fail’
This is similar to ‘none’, in that no files in the destination are
replaced, but any skipped files are diagnosed and induce a failure.
‘older’
This is the default operation when –update is specified, and results in
files being replaced if they’re older than the corresponding source
file.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Print the name of each file before moving it.
‘–strip-trailing-slashes’ ¶
Remove any trailing slashes from each source argument. See Trailing
slashes.
‘-S suffix’ ¶
‘–suffix=suffix’
Append suffix to each backup file made with -b. See Backup options.
‘-t directory’ ¶
‘–target-directory=directory’
Specify the destination directory. See Target directory.
‘-T’ ¶
‘–no-target-directory’
Do not treat the last operand specially when it is a directory or a
symbolic link to a directory. See Target directory.
‘-Z’ ¶
‘–context’
This option functions similarly to the restorecon command, by adjusting
the SELinux security context according to the system default type for
destination files and each created directory.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: shred: Remove files more securely, Previous: mv: Move (rename)
files, Up: Basic operations   [Contents][Index]

11.5 rm: Remove files or directories ¶

rm removes each given file. By default, it does not remove directories.
Synopsis:

If the -I or –interactive=once option is given, and there are more than
three files or the -r, -R, or –recursive are given, then rm prompts the
user for whether to proceed with the entire operation. If the response
is not affirmative, the entire command is aborted.
Otherwise, if a file is unwritable, standard input is a terminal, and
the -f or –force option is not given, or the -i or –interactive=always
option is given, rm prompts the user for whether to remove the file. If
the response is not affirmative, the file is skipped.
Any attempt to remove a file whose last file name component is . or ..
is rejected without any prompting, as mandated by POSIX.
Warning: If you use rm to remove a file, it is usually possible to
recover the contents of that file. If you want more assurance that the
contents are unrecoverable, consider using shred.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–dir’
Remove the listed directories if they are empty.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–force’
Ignore nonexistent files and missing operands, and never prompt the
user. Ignore any previous –interactive (-i) option.
‘-i’ ¶
Prompt whether to remove each file. If the response is not affirmative,
silently skip the file without failing. Ignore any previous –force (-f)
option. Equivalent to –interactive=always.
‘-I’ ¶
Prompt once whether to proceed with the command, if more than three
files are named or if a recursive removal is requested. Ignore any
previous –force (-f) option. Equivalent to –interactive=once.
‘–interactive[=when]’ ¶
Specify when to issue an interactive prompt. when may be omitted, or one
of:
never  - Do not prompt at all.
once  - Prompt once if more than three files are named or if a recursive
removal is requested. Equivalent to -I.
always  - Prompt for every file being removed. Equivalent to -i.
–interactive with no when is equivalent to –interactive=always.
‘–one-file-system’ ¶
When removing a hierarchy recursively, do not remove any directory that
is on a file system different from that of the corresponding command
line argument. This option is useful when removing a build “chroot”
hierarchy, which normally contains no valuable data. However, it is not
uncommon to bind-mount /home into such a hierarchy, to make it easier to
use one’s start-up file. The catch is that it’s easy to forget to
unmount /home. Then, when you use rm -rf to remove your normally
throw-away chroot, that command will remove everything under /home, too.
Use the –one-file-system option, and it will diagnose and skip
directories on other file systems. Of course, this will not save your
/home if it and your chroot happen to be on the same file system. See
also –preserve-root=all to protect command line arguments themselves.
‘–preserve-root[=all]’ ¶
Fail upon any attempt to remove the root directory, /, when used with
the –recursive option. This is the default behavior. See Treating /
specially. When ‘all’ is specified, reject any command line argument
that is not on the same file system as its parent.
‘–no-preserve-root’ ¶
Do not treat / specially when removing recursively. This option is not
recommended unless you really want to remove all the files on your
computer. See Treating / specially.
‘-r’ ¶
‘-R’
‘–recursive’
Remove the listed directories and their contents recursively.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Print the name of each file before removing it.
One common question is how to remove files whose names begin with a ‘-’.
GNU rm, like every program that uses the getopt function to parse its
arguments, lets you use the ‘–’ option to indicate that all following
arguments are non-options. To remove a file called -f in the current
directory, you could type either:

or:

The Unix rm program’s use of a single ‘-’ for this purpose predates the
development of the getopt standard syntax.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Previous: rm: Remove files or directories, Up: Basic operations  
[Contents][Index]

11.6 shred: Remove files more securely ¶

shred overwrites devices or files, to help prevent even extensive
forensics from recovering the data.
Ordinarily when you remove a file (see rm: Remove files or directories),
its data and metadata are not actually destroyed. Only the file’s
directory entry is removed, and the file’s storage is reclaimed only
when no process has the file open and no other directory entry links to
the file. And even if file’s data and metadata’s storage space is freed
for further reuse, there are undelete utilities that will attempt to
reconstruct the file from the data in freed storage, and that can bring
the file back if the storage was not rewritten.
On a busy system with a nearly-full device, space can get reused in a
few seconds. But there is no way to know for sure. And although the
undelete utilities and already-existing processes require insider or
superuser access, you may be wary of the superuser, of processes running
on your behalf, or of attackers that can physically access the storage
device. So if you have sensitive data, you may want to be sure that
recovery is not possible by plausible attacks like these.
The best way to remove something irretrievably is to destroy the media
it’s on with acid, melt it down, or the like. For cheap removable media
this is often the preferred method. However, some storage devices are
expensive or are harder to destroy, so the shred utility tries to
achieve a similar effect non-destructively, by overwriting the file with
non-sensitive data.
The shred command relies on a crucial assumption: that the file system
and hardware overwrite data in place. Although this is common and is the
traditional way to do things, many modern file system designs do not
satisfy this assumption. Exceptions include:
Log-structured or journaled file systems, such as ext3/ext4 (in
data=journal mode), Btrfs, NTFS, ReiserFS, XFS, ZFS, file systems
supplied with AIX and Solaris, etc., when they are configured to journal
data.

File systems that write redundant data and carry on even if some writes
fail, such as RAID-based file systems.

File systems that make snapshots, such as Network Appliance’s NFS
server.

File systems that cache in temporary locations, such as NFS version 3
clients.

Compressed file systems.
For ext3 and ext4 file systems, shred is less effective when the file
system is in data=journal mode, which journals file data in addition to
just metadata. In both the data=ordered (default) and data=writeback
modes, shred works as usual. The ext3/ext4 journaling modes can be
changed by adding the data=something option to the mount options for a
particular file system in the /etc/fstab file, as documented in the
mount man page (‘man mount’). Alternatively, if you know how large the
journal is, you can shred the journal by shredding enough file data so
that the journal cycles around and fills up with shredded data.
If you are not sure how your file system operates, then you should
assume that it does not overwrite data in place, which means shred
cannot reliably operate on regular files in your file system.
Generally speaking, it is more reliable to shred a device than a file,
since this bypasses file system design issues mentioned above. However,
devices are also problematic for shredding, for reasons such as the
following:
Solid-state storage devices (SSDs) typically do wear leveling to prolong
service life, and this means writes are distributed to other blocks by
the hardware, so “overwritten” data blocks are still present in the
underlying device.

Most storage devices map out bad blocks invisibly to the application; if
the bad blocks contain sensitive data, shred won’t be able to destroy
it.

With some obsolete storage technologies, it may be possible to take
(say) a floppy disk back to a laboratory and use a lot of sensitive (and
expensive) equipment to look for the faint “echoes” of the original data
underneath the overwritten data. With these older technologies, if the
file has been overwritten only once, it’s reputedly not even that hard.
Luckily, this kind of data recovery has become difficult, and there is
no public evidence that today’s higher-density storage devices can be
analyzed in this way.

The shred command can use many overwrite passes, with data patterns
chosen to maximize the damage they do to the old data. By default the
patterns are designed for best effect on hard drives using now-obsolete
technology; for newer devices, a single pass should suffice. For more
details, see the source code and Peter Gutmann’s paper Secure Deletion
of Data from Magnetic and Solid-State Memory, from the proceedings of
the Sixth USENIX Security Symposium (San Jose, California, July 22–25,
1996).
shred makes no attempt to detect or report these problems, just as it
makes no attempt to do anything about backups. However, since it is more
reliable to shred devices than files, shred by default does not
deallocate or remove the output file. This default is more suitable for
devices, which typically cannot be deallocated and should not be
removed.
Finally, consider the risk of backups and mirrors. File system backups
and remote mirrors may contain copies of the file that cannot be
removed, and that will allow a shredded file to be recovered later. So
if you keep any data you may later want to destroy using shred, be sure
that it is not backed up or mirrored.

The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–force’
Override file permissions if necessary to allow overwriting.
‘-n number’ ¶
‘–iterations=number’
By default, shred uses 3 passes of overwrite. You can reduce this to
save time, or increase it if you think it’s appropriate. After 25 passes
all of the internal overwrite patterns will have been used at least
once.
‘–random-source=file’ ¶
Use file as a source of random data used to overwrite and to choose pass
ordering. See Sources of random data.
‘-s bytes’ ¶
‘–size=bytes’
Shred the first bytes bytes of the file. The default is to shred the
whole file. bytes can be followed by a size specification like ‘K’, ‘M’,
or ‘G’ to specify a multiple. See Block size.
‘-u’ ¶
‘–remove[=how]’
After shredding a file, deallocate it (if possible) and then remove it.
If a file has multiple links, only the named links will be removed.
Often the file name is less sensitive than the file data, in which case
the optional how parameter, supported with the long form option, gives
control of how to more efficiently remove each directory entry. The
‘unlink’ parameter will just use a standard unlink call, ‘wipe’ will
also first obfuscate bytes in the name, and ‘wipesync’ will also sync
each obfuscated byte in the name to the file system. Although ‘wipesync’
is the default method, it can be expensive, requiring a sync for every
character in every file. This can become significant with many files, or
is redundant if your file system provides synchronous metadata updates.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Display to standard error all status updates as sterilization proceeds.
This details each data and metadata operation as it is performed.
‘-x’ ¶
‘–exact’
By default, shred rounds the size of a regular file up to the next
multiple of the file system block size to fully erase the slack space in
the last block of the file. This space may contain portions of the
current system memory on some systems for example. Use –exact to
suppress that behavior. Thus, by default if you shred a 10-byte regular
file on a system with 512-byte blocks, the resulting file will be 512
bytes long. With this option, shred does not increase the apparent size
of the file.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero’
Normally, the last pass that shred writes is made up of random data. If
this would be conspicuous on your storage device (for example, because
it looks like encrypted data), or you just think it’s tidier, the –zero
option adds an additional overwrite pass with all zero bits. This is in
addition to the number of passes specified by the –iterations option.
You might use the following command to erase the file system you created
on a USB flash drive. This command typically takes several minutes,
depending on the drive’s size and write speed. On modern storage devices
a single pass should be adequate, and will take one third the time of
the default three-pass approach.

Similarly, to erase all data on a selected partition of your device, you
could give a command like the following.

To be on the safe side, use at least one pass that overwrites using
pseudo-random data. I.e., don’t be tempted to use ‘-n0 –zero’, in case
some device controller optimizes the process of writing blocks of all
zeros, and thereby does not clear all bytes in a block. Some SSDs may do
just that.
A file of ‘-’ denotes standard output. The intended use of this is to
shred a removed temporary file. For example:

However, the command ‘shred - >file’ does not shred the contents of
file, since the shell truncates file before invoking shred. Use the
command ‘shred file’ or (if using a Bourne-compatible shell) the command
‘shred - 1<>file’ instead.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: Changing file attributes, Previous: Basic operations, Up: GNU
Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

12 Special file types ¶

This chapter describes commands which create special types of files (and
rmdir, which removes directories, one special file type).
Although Unix-like operating systems have markedly fewer special file
types than others, not everything can be treated only as the
undifferentiated byte stream of normal files. For example, when a file
is created or removed, the system must record this information, which it
does in a directory – a special type of file. Although you can read
directories as normal files, if you’re curious, in order for the system
to do its job it must impose a structure, a certain order, on the bytes
of the file. Thus it is a “special” type of file.
Besides directories, other special file types include named pipes
(FIFOs), symbolic links, sockets, and so-called special files.
link: Make a hard link via the link syscall
ln: Make links between files
mkdir: Make directories
mkfifo: Make FIFOs (named pipes)
mknod: Make block or character special files
readlink: Print value of a symlink or canonical file name
rmdir: Remove empty directories
unlink: Remove files via the unlink syscall
Next: ln: Make links between files, Up: Special file types  
[Contents][Index]

12.1 link: Make a hard link via the link syscall ¶

link creates a single hard link at a time. It is a minimalist interface
to the system-provided link function. See Hard Links in The GNU C
Library Reference Manual. It avoids the bells and whistles of the more
commonly-used ln command (see ln: Make links between files). Synopsis:

filename must specify an existing file, and linkname must specify a
nonexistent entry in an existing directory. link simply calls link
(filename, linkname) to create the link.
On a GNU system, this command acts like ‘ln –directory
–no-target-directory filename linkname’. However, the –directory and
–no-target-directory options are not specified by POSIX, and the link
command is more portable in practice.
If filename is a symbolic link, it is unspecified whether linkname will
be a hard link to the symbolic link or to the target of the symbolic
link. Use ln -P or ln -L to specify which behavior is desired.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: mkdir: Make directories, Previous: link: Make a hard link via the
link syscall, Up: Special file types   [Contents][Index]

12.2 ln: Make links between files ¶

ln makes links between files. By default, it makes hard links; with the
-s option, it makes symbolic (or soft) links. Synopses:

If two file names are given, ln creates a link to the first file from
the second.

If one target is given, ln creates a link to that file in the current
directory.

If the –target-directory (-t) option is given, or failing that if the
last file is a directory and the –no-target-directory (-T) option is not
given, ln creates a link to each target file in the specified directory,
using the targets’ names.

Normally ln does not replace existing files. Use the –force (-f) option
to replace them unconditionally, the –interactive (-i) option to replace
them conditionally, and the –backup (-b) option to rename them. Unless
the –backup (-b) option is used there is no brief moment when the
destination does not exist; this is an extension to POSIX.
A hard link is another name for an existing file; the link and the
original are indistinguishable. Technically speaking, they share the
same inode, and the inode contains all the information about a file –
indeed, it is not incorrect to say that the inode is the file. Most
systems prohibit making a hard link to a directory; on those where it is
allowed, only the super-user can do so (and with caution, since creating
a cycle will cause problems to many other utilities). Hard links cannot
cross file system boundaries. (These restrictions are not mandated by
POSIX, however.)
Symbolic links (symlinks for short), on the other hand, are a special
file type (which not all kernels support: System V release 3 (and older)
systems lack symlinks) in which the link file actually refers to a
different file, by name. When most operations (opening, reading,
writing, and so on) are passed the symbolic link file, the kernel
automatically dereferences the link and operates on the target of the
link. But some operations (e.g., removing) work on the link file itself,
rather than on its target. The owner and group of a symlink are not
significant to file access performed through the link, but do have
implications on deleting a symbolic link from a directory with the
restricted deletion bit set. On the GNU system, the mode of a symlink
has no significance and cannot be changed, but on some BSD systems, the
mode can be changed and will affect whether the symlink will be
traversed in file name resolution. See Symbolic Links in The GNU C
Library Reference Manual.
Symbolic links can contain arbitrary strings; a dangling symlink occurs
when the string in the symlink does not resolve to a file. There are no
restrictions against creating dangling symbolic links. There are
trade-offs to using absolute or relative symlinks. An absolute symlink
always points to the same file, even if the directory containing the
link is moved. However, if the symlink is visible from more than one
machine (such as on a networked file system), the file pointed to might
not always be the same. A relative symbolic link is resolved in relation
to the directory that contains the link, and is often useful in
referring to files on the same device without regards to what name that
device is mounted on when accessed via networked machines.
When creating a relative symlink in a different location than the
current directory, the resolution of the symlink will be different than
the resolution of the same string from the current directory. Therefore,
many users prefer to first change directories to the location where the
relative symlink will be created, so that tab-completion or other file
resolution will find the same target as what will be placed in the
symlink.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–backup[=method]’
See Backup options. Make a backup of each file that would otherwise be
overwritten or removed.
‘-d’ ¶
‘-F’
‘–directory’
Allow users with appropriate privileges to attempt to make hard links to
directories. However, this will probably fail due to system
restrictions, even for the super-user.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–force’
Remove existing destination files.
‘-i’ ¶
‘–interactive’
Prompt whether to remove existing destination files, and fail if the
response is not affirmative.
‘-L’ ¶
‘–logical’
If -s is not in effect, and the source file is a symbolic link, create
the hard link to the file referred to by the symbolic link, rather than
the symbolic link itself.
‘-n’ ¶
‘–no-dereference’
Do not treat the last operand specially when it is a symbolic link to a
directory. Instead, treat it as if it were a normal file.
When the destination is an actual directory (not a symlink to one),
there is no ambiguity. The link is created in that directory. But when
the specified destination is a symlink to a directory, there are two
ways to treat the user’s request. ln can treat the destination just as
it would a normal directory and create the link in it. On the other
hand, the destination can be viewed as a non-directory – as the symlink
itself. In that case, ln must delete or backup that symlink before
creating the new link. The default is to treat a destination that is a
symlink to a directory just like a directory.
This option is weaker than the –no-target-directory (-T) option, so it
has no effect if both options are given.
‘-P’ ¶
‘–physical’
If -s is not in effect, and the source file is a symbolic link, create
the hard link to the symbolic link itself. On platforms where this is
not supported by the kernel, this option creates a symbolic link with
identical contents; since symbolic link contents cannot be edited, any
file name resolution performed through either link will be the same as
if a hard link had been created.
‘-r’ ¶
‘–relative’
Make symbolic links relative to the link location. This option is only
valid with the –symbolic option.
Example:

Relative symbolic links are generated based on their canonicalized
containing directory, and canonicalized targets. I.e., all symbolic
links in these file names will be resolved. See realpath: Print the
resolved file name., which gives greater control over relative file name
generation, as demonstrated in the following example:

‘-s’ ¶
‘–symbolic’
Make symbolic links instead of hard links. This option merely produces
an error message on systems that do not support symbolic links.
‘-S suffix’ ¶
‘–suffix=suffix’
Append suffix to each backup file made with -b. See Backup options.
‘-t directory’ ¶
‘–target-directory=directory’
Specify the destination directory. See Target directory.
‘-T’ ¶
‘–no-target-directory’
Do not treat the last operand specially when it is a directory or a
symbolic link to a directory. See Target directory.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Print the name of each file after linking it successfully.
If -L and -P are both given, the last one takes precedence. If -s is
also given, -L and -P are silently ignored. If neither option is given,
then this implementation defaults to -P if the system link supports hard
links to symbolic links (such as the GNU system), and -L if link follows
symbolic links (such as on BSD).
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Examples:

Next: mkfifo: Make FIFOs (named pipes), Previous: ln: Make links between
files, Up: Special file types   [Contents][Index]

12.3 mkdir: Make directories ¶

mkdir creates directories with the specified names. Synopsis:

mkdir creates each directory name in the order given. It reports an
error if name already exists, unless the -p option is given and name is
a directory.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-m mode’ ¶
‘–mode=mode’
Set the file permission bits of created directories to mode, which uses
the same syntax as in chmod and uses ‘a=rwx’ (read, write and execute
allowed for everyone) for the point of the departure. See File
permissions. This option affects only directories given on the command
line; it does not affect any parents that may be created via the -p
option.
Normally the directory has the desired file mode bits at the moment it
is created. As a GNU extension, mode may also mention special mode bits,
but in this case there may be a temporary window during which the
directory exists but its special mode bits are incorrect. See
Directories and the Set-User-ID and Set-Group-ID Bits, for how the
set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits of directories are inherited unless
overridden in this way.
‘-p’ ¶
‘–parents’
Make any missing parent directories for each argument, setting their
file permission bits to ‘=rwx,u+wx’, that is, with the umask modified by
‘u+wx’. Ignore existing parent directories, and do not change their file
permission bits.
If the -m option is also given, it does not affect file permission bits
of any newly-created parent directories. To control these bits, set the
umask before invoking mkdir. For example, if the shell command ‘(umask
u=rwx,go=rx; mkdir -p P/Q)’ creates the parent P it sets the parent’s
file permission bits to ‘u=rwx,go=rx’. (The umask must include ‘u=wx’
for this method to work.) To set a parent’s special mode bits as well,
you can invoke chmod after mkdir. See Directories and the Set-User-ID
and Set-Group-ID Bits, for how the set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits of
newly-created parent directories are inherited.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Print a message for each created directory. This is most useful with
–parents.
‘-Z’ ¶
‘–context[=context]’
Without a specified context, adjust the SELinux security context
according to the system default type for destination files, similarly to
the restorecon command. The long form of this option with a specific
context specified, will set the context for newly created files only.
With a specified context, if both SELinux and SMACK are disabled, a
warning is issued.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: mknod: Make block or character special files, Previous: mkdir:
Make directories, Up: Special file types   [Contents][Index]

12.4 mkfifo: Make FIFOs (named pipes) ¶

mkfifo creates FIFOs (also called named pipes) with the specified names.
Synopsis:

A FIFO is a special file type that permits independent processes to
communicate. One process opens the FIFO file for writing, and another
for reading, after which data can flow as with the usual anonymous pipe
in shells or elsewhere.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-m mode’ ¶
‘–mode=mode’
Set the mode of created FIFOs to mode, which is symbolic as in chmod and
uses ‘a=rw’ (read and write allowed for everyone) for the point of
departure. mode should specify only file permission bits. See File
permissions.
‘-Z’ ¶
‘–context[=context]’
Without a specified context, adjust the SELinux security context
according to the system default type for destination files, similarly to
the restorecon command. The long form of this option with a specific
context specified, will set the context for newly created files only.
With a specified context, if both SELinux and SMACK are disabled, a
warning is issued.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: readlink: Print value of a symlink or canonical file name,
Previous: mkfifo: Make FIFOs (named pipes), Up: Special file types  
[Contents][Index]

12.5 mknod: Make block or character special files ¶

mknod creates a FIFO, character special file, or block special file with
the specified name. Synopsis:

Unlike the phrase “special file type” above, the term special file has a
technical meaning on Unix: something that can generate or receive data.
Usually this corresponds to a physical piece of hardware, e.g., a
printer or a flash drive. (These files are typically created at
system-configuration time.) The mknod command is what creates files of
this type. Such devices can be read either a character at a time or a
“block” (many characters) at a time, hence we say there are block
special files and character special files.
Due to shell aliases and built-in mknod functions, using an unadorned
mknod interactively or in a script may get you different functionality
than that described here. Invoke it via env (i.e., env mknod …) to avoid
interference from the shell.
The arguments after name specify the type of file to make:
‘p’ ¶
for a FIFO
‘b’ ¶
for a block special file
‘c’
for a character special file
When making a block or character special file, the major and minor
device numbers must be given after the file type. If a major or minor
device number begins with ‘0x’ or ‘0X’, it is interpreted as
hexadecimal; otherwise, if it begins with ‘0’, as octal; otherwise, as
decimal.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-m mode’ ¶
‘–mode=mode’
Set the mode of created files to mode, which is symbolic as in chmod and
uses ‘a=rw’ as the point of departure. mode should specify only file
permission bits. See File permissions.
‘-Z’ ¶
‘–context[=context]’
Without a specified context, adjust the SELinux security context
according to the system default type for destination files, similarly to
the restorecon command. The long form of this option with a specific
context specified, will set the context for newly created files only.
With a specified context, if both SELinux and SMACK are disabled, a
warning is issued.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: rmdir: Remove empty directories, Previous: mknod: Make block or
character special files, Up: Special file types   [Contents][Index]

12.6 readlink: Print value of a symlink or canonical file name ¶

readlink may work in one of two supported modes:
‘Readlink mode’
readlink outputs the value of the given symbolic links. If readlink is
invoked with an argument other than the name of a symbolic link, it
produces no output and exits with a nonzero exit code.
‘Canonicalize mode’
readlink outputs the absolute name of the given files which contain no
., .. components nor any repeated separators (/) or symbolic links. The
realpath command is the preferred command to use for canonicalization.
See realpath: Print the resolved file name..

By default, readlink operates in readlink mode.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–canonicalize’
Activate canonicalize mode. If any component of the file name except the
last one is missing or unavailable, readlink produces no output and
exits with a nonzero exit code. A trailing slash is ignored.
‘-e’ ¶
‘–canonicalize-existing’
Activate canonicalize mode. If any component is missing or unavailable,
readlink produces no output and exits with a nonzero exit code. A
trailing slash requires that the name resolve to a directory.
‘-m’ ¶
‘–canonicalize-missing’
Activate canonicalize mode. If any component is missing or unavailable,
readlink treats it as a directory.
‘-n’ ¶
‘–no-newline’
Do not print the output delimiter, when a single file is specified.
Print a warning if specified along with multiple files.
‘-q’ ¶
‘-s’
‘–quiet’
‘–silent’
Suppress most error messages.
This option is on by default if the POSIXLY_CORRECT environment variable
is not set.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Report error messages.
This option is on by default if the POSIXLY_CORRECT environment variable
is set.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero’
Output a zero byte (ASCII NUL) at the end of each line, rather than a
newline. This option enables other programs to parse the output even
when that output would contain data with embedded newlines.
The readlink utility first appeared in OpenBSD 2.1.
The realpath command without options, operates like readlink in
canonicalize mode.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: unlink: Remove files via the unlink syscall, Previous: readlink:
Print value of a symlink or canonical file name, Up: Special file types
  [Contents][Index]

12.7 rmdir: Remove empty directories ¶

rmdir removes empty directories. Synopsis:

If any directory argument does not refer to an existing empty directory,
it is an error.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘–ignore-fail-on-non-empty’ ¶
Ignore each failure to remove a directory that is non-empty.
‘-p’ ¶
‘–parents’
Remove directory, then try to remove each component of directory. So,
for example, ‘rmdir -p a/b/c’ is similar to ‘rmdir a/b/c a/b a’. As
such, it fails if any of those directories turns out not to be empty.
Use the –ignore-fail-on-non-empty option to make it so such a failure
does not evoke a diagnostic and does not cause rmdir to exit
unsuccessfully.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Give a diagnostic for each successful removal. directory is removed.
See rm: Remove files or directories, for how to remove non-empty
directories recursively.
To remove all empty directories under dirname, including directories
that become empty because other directories are removed, you can use
either of the following commands:

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Previous: rmdir: Remove empty directories, Up: Special file types  
[Contents][Index]

12.8 unlink: Remove files via the unlink syscall ¶

unlink deletes a single specified file name. It is a minimalist
interface to the system-provided unlink function. See Deleting Files in
The GNU C Library Reference Manual. Synopsis: It avoids the bells and
whistles of the more commonly-used rm command (see rm: Remove files or
directories).

On some systems unlink can be used to delete the name of a directory. On
others, it can be used that way only by a privileged user. In the GNU
system unlink can never delete the name of a directory.
The unlink command honors the –help and –version options. To remove a
file whose name begins with ‘-’, prefix the name with ‘./’, e.g.,
‘unlink ./–help’.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: File space usage, Previous: Special file types, Up: GNU Coreutils
  [Contents][Index]

13 Changing file attributes ¶

A file is not merely its contents, a name, and a file type (see Special
file types). A file also has an owner (a user ID), a group (a group ID),
permissions (what the owner can do with the file, what people in the
group can do, and what everyone else can do), various timestamps, and
other information. Collectively, we call these a file’s attributes.
These commands change file attributes.
chown: Change file owner and group
chgrp: Change group ownership
chmod: Change access permissions
touch: Change file timestamps
Next: chgrp: Change group ownership, Up: Changing file attributes  
[Contents][Index]

13.1 chown: Change file owner and group ¶

chown changes the user and/or group ownership of each given file to
new-owner or to the user and group of an existing reference file.
Synopsis:

If used, new-owner specifies the new owner and/or group as follows (with
no embedded white space):

Specifically:
owner
If only an owner (a user name or numeric user ID) is given, that user is
made the owner of each given file, and the files’ group is not changed.
owner‘:’group
If the owner is followed by a colon and a group (a group name or numeric
group ID), with no spaces between them, the group ownership of the files
is changed as well (to group).
owner‘:’
If a colon but no group name follows owner, that user is made the owner
of the files and the group of the files is changed to owner’s login
group.
‘:’group
If the colon and following group are given, but the owner is omitted,
only the group of the files is changed; in this case, chown performs the
same function as chgrp.
‘:’
If only a colon is given, or if new-owner is empty, neither the owner
nor the group is changed.
If owner or group is intended to represent a numeric user or group ID,
then you may specify it with a leading ‘+’. See chown, chgrp, chroot,
id: Disambiguating user names and IDs.
Some older scripts may still use ‘.’ in place of the ‘:’ separator.
POSIX 1003.1-2001 (see Standards conformance) does not require support
for that, but for backward compatibility GNU chown supports ‘.’ so long
as no ambiguity results, although it issues a warning and support may be
removed in future versions. New scripts should avoid the use of ‘.’
because it is not portable, and because it has undesirable results if
the entire owner‘.’group happens to identify a user whose name contains
‘.’.
It is system dependent whether a user can change the group to an
arbitrary one, or the more portable behavior of being restricted to
setting a group of which the user is a member.
The chown command sometimes clears the set-user-ID or set-group-ID
permission bits. This behavior depends on the policy and functionality
of the underlying chown system call, which may make system-dependent
file mode modifications outside the control of the chown command. For
example, the chown command might not affect those bits when invoked by a
user with appropriate privileges, or when the bits signify some function
other than executable permission (e.g., mandatory locking). When in
doubt, check the underlying system behavior.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–changes’
Verbosely describe the action for each file whose ownership actually
changes.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–silent’
‘–quiet’
Do not print error messages about files whose ownership cannot be
changed.
‘–from=old-owner’ ¶
Change a file’s ownership only if it has current attributes specified by
old-owner. old-owner has the same form as new-owner described above.
This option is useful primarily from a security standpoint in that it
narrows considerably the window of potential abuse. For example, to
reflect a user ID numbering change for one user’s files without an
option like this, root might run

But that is dangerous because the interval between when the find tests
the existing file’s owner and when the chown is actually run may be
quite large. One way to narrow the gap would be to invoke chown for each
file as it is found:

But that is very slow if there are many affected files. With this
option, it is safer (the gap is narrower still) though still not
perfect:

‘–dereference’ ¶
Do not act on symbolic links themselves but rather on what they point
to. This is the default when not operating recursively.
Combining this dereferencing option with the –recursive option may
create a security risk: During the traversal of the directory tree, an
attacker may be able to introduce a symlink to an arbitrary target; when
the tool reaches that, the operation will be performed on the target of
that symlink, possibly allowing the attacker to escalate privileges.
‘-h’ ¶
‘–no-dereference’
Act on symbolic links themselves instead of what they point to. This
mode relies on the lchown system call. On systems that do not provide
the lchown system call, no diagnostic is issued, but see –verbose.
‘–preserve-root’ ¶
Fail upon any attempt to recursively change the root directory, /.
Without –recursive, this option has no effect. See Treating / specially.
‘–no-preserve-root’ ¶
Cancel the effect of any preceding –preserve-root option. See Treating /
specially.
‘–reference=ref_file’ ¶
Change the user and group of each file to be the same as those of
ref_file. If ref_file is a symbolic link, do not use the user and group
of the symbolic link, but rather those of the file it refers to.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Output a diagnostic for every file processed. If a symbolic link is
encountered during a recursive traversal on a system without the lchown
system call, and –no-dereference is in effect, then issue a diagnostic
saying neither the symbolic link nor its referent is being changed.
‘-R’ ¶
‘–recursive’
Recursively change ownership of directories and their contents.
‘-H’ ¶
If –recursive (-R) is specified and a command line argument is a
symbolic link to a directory, traverse it. See Traversing symlinks.
‘-L’ ¶
In a recursive traversal, traverse every symbolic link to a directory
that is encountered.
Combining this dereferencing option with the –recursive option may
create a security risk: During the traversal of the directory tree, an
attacker may be able to introduce a symlink to an arbitrary target; when
the tool reaches that, the operation will be performed on the target of
that symlink, possibly allowing the attacker to escalate privileges.
See Traversing symlinks.
‘-P’ ¶
Do not traverse any symbolic links. This is the default if none of -H,
-L, or -P is specified. See Traversing symlinks.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Examples:

Next: chmod: Change access permissions, Previous: chown: Change file
owner and group, Up: Changing file attributes   [Contents][Index]

13.2 chgrp: Change group ownership ¶

chgrp changes the group ownership of each given file to group (which can
be either a group name or a numeric group ID) or to the group of an
existing reference file. See chown: Change file owner and group.
Synopsis:

If group is intended to represent a numeric group ID, then you may
specify it with a leading ‘+’. See chown, chgrp, chroot, id:
Disambiguating user names and IDs.
It is system dependent whether a user can change the group to an
arbitrary one, or the more portable behavior of being restricted to
setting a group of which the user is a member.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–changes’
Verbosely describe the action for each file whose group actually
changes.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–silent’
‘–quiet’
Do not print error messages about files whose group cannot be changed.
‘–from=old-owner’ ¶
Change a file’s ownership only if it has current attributes specified by
old-owner. old-owner has the same form as new-owner described above.
This option is useful primarily from a security standpoint in that it
narrows considerably the window of potential abuse. For example, to
reflect a user ID numbering change for one user’s files without an
option like this, root might run

But that is dangerous because the interval between when the find tests
the existing file’s owner and when the chgrp is actually run may be
quite large. One way to narrow the gap would be to invoke chgrp for each
file as it is found:

But that is very slow if there are many affected files. With this
option, it is safer (the gap is narrower still) though still not
perfect:

‘–dereference’ ¶
Do not act on symbolic links themselves but rather on what they point
to. This is the default when not operating recursively.
Combining this dereferencing option with the –recursive option may
create a security risk: During the traversal of the directory tree, an
attacker may be able to introduce a symlink to an arbitrary target; when
the tool reaches that, the operation will be performed on the target of
that symlink, possibly allowing the attacker to escalate privileges.
‘-h’ ¶
‘–no-dereference’
Act on symbolic links themselves instead of what they point to. This
mode relies on the lchown system call. On systems that do not provide
the lchown system call, no diagnostic is issued, but see –verbose.
‘–preserve-root’ ¶
Fail upon any attempt to recursively change the root directory, /.
Without –recursive, this option has no effect. See Treating / specially.
‘–no-preserve-root’ ¶
Cancel the effect of any preceding –preserve-root option. See Treating /
specially.
‘–reference=ref_file’ ¶
Change the group of each file to be the same as that of ref_file. If
ref_file is a symbolic link, do not use the group of the symbolic link,
but rather that of the file it refers to.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Output a diagnostic for every file processed. If a symbolic link is
encountered during a recursive traversal on a system without the lchown
system call, and –no-dereference is in effect, then issue a diagnostic
saying neither the symbolic link nor its referent is being changed.
‘-R’ ¶
‘–recursive’
Recursively change the group ownership of directories and their
contents.
‘-H’ ¶
If –recursive (-R) is specified and a command line argument is a
symbolic link to a directory, traverse it. See Traversing symlinks.
‘-L’ ¶
In a recursive traversal, traverse every symbolic link to a directory
that is encountered.
Combining this dereferencing option with the –recursive option may
create a security risk: During the traversal of the directory tree, an
attacker may be able to introduce a symlink to an arbitrary target; when
the tool reaches that, the operation will be performed on the target of
that symlink, possibly allowing the attacker to escalate privileges.
See Traversing symlinks.
‘-P’ ¶
Do not traverse any symbolic links. This is the default if none of -H,
-L, or -P is specified. See Traversing symlinks.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Examples:

Next: touch: Change file timestamps, Previous: chgrp: Change group
ownership, Up: Changing file attributes   [Contents][Index]

13.3 chmod: Change access permissions ¶

chmod changes the access permissions of the named files. Synopsis:

chmod doesn’t change the permissions of symbolic links, since the chmod
system call cannot change their permissions on most systems, and most
systems ignore permissions of symbolic links. However, for each symbolic
link listed on the command line, chmod changes the permissions of the
pointed-to file. In contrast, chmod ignores symbolic links encountered
during recursive directory traversals. Options that modify this behavior
are described below.
Only a process whose effective user ID matches the user ID of the file,
or a process with appropriate privileges, is permitted to change the
file mode bits of a file.
A successful use of chmod clears the set-group-ID bit of a regular file
if the file’s group ID does not match the user’s effective group ID or
one of the user’s supplementary group IDs, unless the user has
appropriate privileges. Additional restrictions may cause the
set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits of mode or ref_file to be ignored.
This behavior depends on the policy and functionality of the underlying
chmod system call. When in doubt, check the underlying system behavior.
If used, mode specifies the new file mode bits. For details, see the
section on File permissions. If you really want mode to have a leading
‘-’, you should use – first, e.g., ‘chmod – -w file’. Typically, though,
‘chmod a-w file’ is preferable, and chmod -w file (without the –)
complains if it behaves differently from what ‘chmod a-w file’ would do.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–changes’
Verbosely describe the action for each file whose permissions actually
change.
‘–dereference’ ¶
Do not act on symbolic links themselves but rather on what they point
to. This is the default for command line arguments, but not for symbolic
links encountered when recursing.
Combining this dereferencing option with the –recursive option may
create a security risk: During the traversal of the directory tree, an
attacker may be able to introduce a symlink to an arbitrary target; when
the tool reaches that, the operation will be performed on the target of
that symlink, possibly allowing the attacker to escalate privileges.
‘-h’ ¶
‘–no-dereference’
Act on symbolic links themselves instead of what they point to. On
systems that do not support this, no diagnostic is issued, but see
–verbose.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–silent’
‘–quiet’
Do not print error messages about files whose permissions cannot be
changed.
‘–preserve-root’ ¶
Fail upon any attempt to recursively change the root directory, /.
Without –recursive, this option has no effect. See Treating / specially.
‘–no-preserve-root’ ¶
Cancel the effect of any preceding –preserve-root option. See Treating /
specially.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Verbosely describe the action or non-action taken for every file.
‘–reference=ref_file’ ¶
Change the mode of each file to be the same as that of ref_file. See
File permissions. If ref_file is a symbolic link, do not use the mode of
the symbolic link, but rather that of the file it refers to.
‘-R’ ¶
‘–recursive’
Recursively change permissions of directories and their contents.
‘-H’ ¶
If –recursive (-R) is specified and a command line argument is a
symbolic link to a directory, traverse it. This is the default if none
of -H, -L, or -P is specified. See Traversing symlinks.
‘-L’ ¶
In a recursive traversal, traverse every symbolic link to a directory
that is encountered.
Combining this dereferencing option with the –recursive option may
create a security risk: During the traversal of the directory tree, an
attacker may be able to introduce a symlink to an arbitrary target; when
the tool reaches that, the operation will be performed on the target of
that symlink, possibly allowing the attacker to escalate privileges.
See Traversing symlinks.
‘-P’ ¶
Do not traverse any symbolic links. See Traversing symlinks.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Examples:

Previous: chmod: Change access permissions, Up: Changing file attributes
  [Contents][Index]

13.4 touch: Change file timestamps ¶

touch changes the access and/or modification timestamps of the specified
files. Synopsis:

Any file argument that does not exist is created empty, unless option
–no-create (-c) or –no-dereference (-h) was in effect.
A file argument string of ‘-’ is handled specially and causes touch to
change the times of the file associated with standard output.
By default, touch sets file timestamps to the current time. Because
touch acts on its operands left to right, the resulting timestamps of
earlier and later operands may disagree.
When setting file timestamps to the current time, touch can change the
timestamps for files that the user does not own but has write permission
for. Otherwise, the user must own the files. Some older systems have a
further restriction: the user must own the files unless both the access
and modification timestamps are being set to the current time.
The touch command cannot set a file’s status change timestamp to a
user-specified value, and cannot change the file’s birth time (if
supported) at all. Also, touch has issues similar to those affecting all
programs that update file timestamps. For example, touch may set a
file’s timestamp to a value that differs slightly from the requested
time. See File timestamps.
Timestamps assume the time zone rules specified by the TZ environment
variable, or by the system default rules if TZ is not set. See
Specifying the Time Zone with TZ in The GNU C Library Reference Manual.
You can avoid ambiguities during daylight saving transitions by using
UTC timestamps.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-a’ ¶
‘–time=atime’
‘–time=access’
‘–time=use’
Change the access timestamp only. See File timestamps.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–no-create’
Do not warn about or create files that do not exist.
‘-d time’ ¶
‘–date=time’
Use time instead of the current time. It can contain month names, time
zones, ‘am’ and ‘pm’, ‘yesterday’, etc. For example, –date="2020-07-21
14:19:13.489392193 +0530" specifies the instant of time that is
489,392,193 nanoseconds after July 21, 2020 at 2:19:13 PM in a time zone
that is 5 hours and 30 minutes east of UTC. See Date input formats. File
systems that do not support high-resolution timestamps silently ignore
any excess precision here.
‘-f’ ¶
Ignored; for compatibility with BSD versions of touch.
‘-h’ ¶
‘–no-dereference’
Attempt to change the timestamps of a symbolic link, rather than what
the link refers to. When using this option, empty files are not created,
but option -c must also be used to avoid warning about files that do not
exist. Not all systems support changing the timestamps of symlinks,
since underlying system support for this action was not required until
POSIX 2008. Also, on some systems, the mere act of examining a symbolic
link changes the access timestamp, such that only changes to the
modification timestamp will persist long enough to be observable. When
coupled with option -r, a reference timestamp is taken from a symbolic
link rather than the file it refers to.
‘-m’ ¶
‘–time=mtime’
‘–time=modify’
Change the modification timestamp only.
‘-r file’ ¶
‘–reference=file’
Use the times of the reference file instead of the current time. If this
option is combined with the –date=time (-d time) option, the reference
file’s time is the origin for any relative times given, but is otherwise
ignored. For example, ‘-r foo -d ‘-5 seconds’’ specifies a timestamp
equal to five seconds before the corresponding timestamp for foo. If
file is a symbolic link, the reference timestamp is taken from the
target of the symlink, unless -h was also in effect.
‘-t [[cc]yy]mmddhhmm[.ss]’ ¶
Use the argument (optional four-digit or two-digit years, months, days,
hours, minutes, optional seconds) instead of the current time. If the
year is specified with only two digits, then cc is 20 for years in the
range 0 … 68, and 19 for years in 69 … 99. If no digits of the year are
specified, the argument is interpreted as a date in the current year. On
the atypical systems that support leap seconds, ss may be ‘60’.
On systems predating POSIX 1003.1-2001, touch supports an obsolete
syntax, as follows. If no timestamp is given with any of the -d, -r, or
-t options, and if there are two or more files and the first file is of
the form ‘mmddhhmm[yy]’ and this would be a valid argument to the -t
option (if the yy, if any, were moved to the front), and if the
represented year is in the range 1969–1999, that argument is interpreted
as the time for the other files instead of as a file name. Although this
obsolete behavior can be controlled with the _POSIX2_VERSION environment
variable (see Standards conformance), portable scripts should avoid
commands whose behavior depends on this variable. For example, use
‘touch ./12312359 main.c’ or ‘touch -t 12312359 main.c’ rather than the
ambiguous ‘touch 12312359 main.c’.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: Printing text, Previous: Changing file attributes, Up: GNU
Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

14 File space usage ¶

No file system can hold an infinite amount of data. These commands
report how much storage is in use or available, report other file and
file status information, and write buffers to file systems.
df: Report file system space usage
du: Estimate file space usage
stat: Report file or file system status
sync: Synchronize cached writes to persistent storage
truncate: Shrink or extend the size of a file
Next: du: Estimate file space usage, Up: File space usage  
[Contents][Index]

14.1 df: Report file system space usage ¶

df reports the amount of space used and available on file systems.
Synopsis:

With no arguments, df reports the space used and available on all
currently mounted file systems (of all types). Otherwise, df reports on
the file system containing each argument file.
Normally the space is printed in units of 1024 bytes, but this can be
overridden (see Block size). Non-integer quantities are rounded up to
the next higher unit.
For bind mounts and without arguments, df only outputs the statistics
for that device with the shortest mount point name in the list of file
systems (mtab), i.e., it hides duplicate entries, unless the -a option
is specified.
With the same logic, df elides a mount entry of a dummy pseudo device if
there is another mount entry of a real block device for that mount point
with the same device number, e.g. the early-boot pseudo file system
‘rootfs’ is not shown per default when already the real root device has
been mounted.
If an argument file resolves to a special file containing a mounted file
system, df shows the space available on that file system rather than on
the file system containing the device node. GNU df does not attempt to
determine the usage on unmounted file systems, because on most kinds of
systems doing so requires extremely non-portable intimate knowledge of
file system structures.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-a’ ¶
‘–all’
Include in the listing dummy, duplicate, or inaccessible file systems,
which are omitted by default. Dummy file systems are typically special
purpose pseudo file systems such as ‘/proc’, with no associated storage.
Duplicate file systems are local or remote file systems that are mounted
at separate locations in the local file hierarchy, or bind mounted
locations. Inaccessible file systems are those which are mounted but
subsequently over-mounted by another file system at that point, or
otherwise inaccessible due to permissions of the mount point etc.
‘-B size’ ¶
‘–block-size=size’
Scale sizes by size before printing them (see Block size). For example,
-BG prints sizes in units of 1,073,741,824 bytes.
‘-h’ ¶
‘–human-readable’
Append a size letter to each size, such as ‘M’ for mebibytes. Powers of
1024 are used, not 1000; ‘M’ stands for 1,048,576 bytes. This option is
equivalent to –block-size=human-readable. Use the –si option if you
prefer powers of 1000.
‘-H’ ¶
Equivalent to –si.
‘-i’ ¶
‘–inodes’
List inode usage information instead of block usage. An inode (short for
index node) contains information about a file such as its owner,
permissions, timestamps, and location on the file system.
‘-k’ ¶
Print sizes in 1024-byte blocks, overriding the default block size (see
Block size). This option is equivalent to –block-size=1K.
‘-l’ ¶
‘–local’
Limit the listing to local file systems. By default, remote file systems
are also listed.
‘–no-sync’ ¶
Do not invoke the sync system call before getting any usage data. This
may make df run significantly faster on systems with many file systems,
but on some systems (notably Solaris) the results may be slightly out of
date. This is the default.
‘–output[=field_list]’ ¶
Use the output format defined by field_list, or print all fields if
field_list is omitted. In the latter case, the order of the columns
conforms to the order of the field descriptions below.
The use of the –output together with each of the options -i, -P, and -T
is mutually exclusive.
FIELD_LIST is a comma-separated list of columns to be included in df’s
output and therefore effectively controls the order of output columns.
Each field can thus be used at the place of choice, but yet must only be
used once.
Valid field names in the field_list are:
‘source’
The source of the mount point, usually a device.
‘fstype’
File system type.
‘itotal’
Total number of inodes.
‘iused’
Number of used inodes.
‘iavail’
Number of available inodes.
‘ipcent’
Percentage of iused divided by itotal.
‘size’
Total number of blocks.
‘used’
Number of used blocks.
‘avail’
Number of available blocks.
‘pcent’
Percentage of used divided by size.
‘file’
The file name if specified on the command line.
‘target’
The mount point.
The fields for block and inodes statistics are affected by the scaling
options like -h as usual.
The definition of the field_list can even be split among several –output
uses.

‘-P’ ¶
‘–portability’
Use the POSIX output format. This is like the default format except for
the following:
The information about each file system is always printed on exactly one
line; a mount device is never put on a line by itself. This means that
if the mount device name is more than 20 characters long (e.g., for some
network mounts), the columns are misaligned.

The labels in the header output line are changed to conform to POSIX.

The default block size and output format are unaffected by the
DF_BLOCK_SIZE, BLOCK_SIZE and BLOCKSIZE environment variables. However,
the default block size is still affected by POSIXLY_CORRECT: it is 512
if POSIXLY_CORRECT is set, 1024 otherwise. See Block size.
‘–si’ ¶
Append an SI-style abbreviation to each size, such as ‘M’ for megabytes.
Powers of 1000 are used, not 1024; ‘M’ stands for 1,000,000 bytes. This
option is equivalent to –block-size=si. Use the -h or –human-readable
option if you prefer powers of 1024.
‘–sync’ ¶
Invoke the sync system call before getting any usage data. On some
systems (notably Solaris), doing this yields more up to date results,
but in general this option makes df much slower, especially when there
are many or very busy file systems.
‘–total’ ¶
Print a grand total of all arguments after all arguments have been
processed. This can be used to find out the total size, usage and
available space of all listed devices. If no arguments are specified df
will try harder to elide file systems insignificant to the total
available space, by suppressing duplicate remote file systems.
For the grand total line, df prints ‘total’ into the source column, and
‘-’ into the target column. If there is no source column (see –output),
then df prints ‘total’ into the target column, if present.
‘-t fstype’ ¶
‘–type=fstype’
Limit the listing to file systems of type fstype. Multiple file system
types can be specified by giving multiple -t options. By default,
nothing is omitted.
‘-T’ ¶
‘–print-type’
Print each file system’s type. The types printed here are the same ones
you can include or exclude with -t and -x. The particular types printed
are whatever is supported by the system. Here are some of the common
names (this list is certainly not exhaustive):
‘nfs’ ¶
An NFS file system, i.e., one mounted over a network from another
machine. This is the one type name which seems to be used uniformly by
all systems.
‘ext2, ext3, ext4, xfs, btrfs…’ ¶
A file system on a locally-mounted device. (The system might even
support more than one type here; GNU/Linux does.)
‘iso9660, cdfs’ ¶
A file system on a CD or DVD drive. HP-UX uses ‘cdfs’, most other
systems use ‘iso9660’.
‘ntfs,fat’ ¶
File systems used by MS-Windows / MS-DOS.
‘-x fstype’ ¶
‘–exclude-type=fstype’
Limit the listing to file systems not of type fstype. Multiple file
system types can be eliminated by giving multiple -x options. By
default, no file system types are omitted.
‘-v’ ¶
Ignored; for compatibility with System V versions of df.
df is installed only on systems that have usable mount tables, so
portable scripts should not rely on its existence.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure. Failure includes the case where no output is generated, so you
can inspect the exit status of a command like ‘df -t ext3 -t reiserfs
dir’ to test whether dir is on a file system of type ‘ext3’ or
‘reiserfs’.
Since the list of file systems (mtab) is needed to determine the file
system type, failure includes the cases when that list cannot be read
and one or more of the options -a, -l, -t or -x is used together with a
file name argument.
Next: stat: Report file or file system status, Previous: df: Report file
system space usage, Up: File space usage   [Contents][Index]

14.2 du: Estimate file space usage ¶

du reports the space needed to represent a set of files. Synopsis:

With no arguments, du reports the space needed to represent the files at
or under the current directory. Normally the space is printed in units
of 1024 bytes, but this can be overridden (see Block size). Non-integer
quantities are rounded up to the next higher unit.
If two or more hard links point to the same file, only one of the hard
links is counted. The file argument order affects which links are
counted, and changing the argument order may change the numbers and
entries that du outputs.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-0’ ¶
‘–null’
Output a zero byte (ASCII NUL) at the end of each line, rather than a
newline. This option enables other programs to parse the output even
when that output would contain data with embedded newlines.
‘-a’ ¶
‘–all’
Show counts for all files, not just directories.
‘-A’ ¶
‘–apparent-size’
Print apparent sizes, rather than file system usage. The apparent size
of a file is the number of bytes reported by wc -c on regular files, or
more generally, ls -l –block-size=1 or stat –format=%s. For example, a
file containing the word ‘zoo’ with no newline would, of course, have an
apparent size of 3. Such a small file may require anywhere from 0 to 16
KiB or more of file system space, depending on the type and
configuration of the file system on which the file resides. However, a
sparse file created with this command:

has an apparent size of 2 GiB, yet on most modern file systems, it
actually uses almost no space.
Apparent sizes are meaningful only for regular files and symbolic links.
Other file types do not contribute to apparent size.
‘-B size’ ¶
‘–block-size=size’
Scale sizes by size before printing them (see Block size). For example,
-BG prints sizes in units of 1,073,741,824 bytes.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–bytes’
Equivalent to –apparent-size –block-size=1.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–total’
Print a grand total of all arguments after all arguments have been
processed. This can be used to find out the total file system usage of a
given set of files or directories.
‘-D’ ¶
‘–dereference-args’
Dereference symbolic links that are command line arguments. Does not
affect other symbolic links. This is helpful for finding out the file
system usage of directories, such as /usr/tmp, which are often symbolic
links.
‘-d depth’ ¶
‘–max-depth=depth’
Show the total for each directory (and file if –all) that is at most
MAX_DEPTH levels down from the root of the hierarchy. The root is at
level 0, so du –max-depth=0 is equivalent to du -s.
‘–files0-from=file’ ¶
Disallow processing files named on the command line, and instead process
those named in file file; each name being terminated by a zero byte
(ASCII NUL). This is useful when the list of file names is so long that
it may exceed a command line length limitation. In such cases, running
du via xargs is undesirable because it splits the list into pieces and
makes du print with the –total (-c) option for each sublist rather than
for the entire list. One way to produce a list of ASCII NUL terminated
file names is with GNU find, using its -print0 predicate. If file is ‘-’
then the ASCII NUL terminated file names are read from standard input.
‘-H’ ¶
Equivalent to –dereference-args (-D).
‘-h’ ¶
‘–human-readable’
Append a size letter to each size, such as ‘M’ for mebibytes. Powers of
1024 are used, not 1000; ‘M’ stands for 1,048,576 bytes. This option is
equivalent to –block-size=human-readable. Use the –si option if you
prefer powers of 1000.
‘–inodes’ ¶
List inode usage information instead of block usage. This option is
useful for finding directories which contain many files, and therefore
eat up most of the inodes space of a file system (see df, option
–inodes). It can well be combined with the options -a, -c, -h, -l, -s,
-S, -t and -x; however, passing other options regarding the block size,
for example -b, -m and –apparent-size, is ignored.
‘-k’ ¶
Print sizes in 1024-byte blocks, overriding the default block size (see
Block size). This option is equivalent to –block-size=1K.
‘-L’ ¶
‘–dereference’
Dereference symbolic links (show the file system space used by the file
or directory that the link points to instead of the space used by the
link).
‘-l’ ¶
‘–count-links’
Count the size of all files, even if they have appeared already (as a
hard link).
‘-m’ ¶
Print sizes in 1,048,576-byte blocks, overriding the default block size
(see Block size). This option is equivalent to –block-size=1M.
‘-P’ ¶
‘–no-dereference’
For each symbolic link encountered by du, consider the file system space
used by the symbolic link itself.
‘-S’ ¶
‘–separate-dirs’
Normally, in the output of du (when not using –summarize), the size
listed next to a directory name, d, represents the sum of sizes of all
entries beneath d as well as the size of d itself. With –separate-dirs,
the size reported for a directory name, d, will exclude the size of any
subdirectories.
‘–si’ ¶
Append an SI-style abbreviation to each size, such as ‘M’ for megabytes.
Powers of 1000 are used, not 1024; ‘M’ stands for 1,000,000 bytes. This
option is equivalent to –block-size=si. Use the -h or –human-readable
option if you prefer powers of 1024.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–summarize’
Display only a total for each argument.
‘-t size’ ¶
‘–threshold=size’
Exclude entries based on a given size. The size refers to used blocks in
normal mode (see Block size), or inodes count in conjunction with the
–inodes option.
If size is positive, then du will only print entries with a size greater
than or equal to that.
If size is negative, then du will only print entries with a size smaller
than or equal to that.
Although GNU find can be used to find files of a certain size, du’s
–threshold option can be used to also filter directories based on a
given size.
When combined with the –apparent-size option, the –threshold option
elides entries based on apparent size. When combined with the –inodes
option, it elides entries based on inode counts.
When combined with the –total option, the –threshold option does not
prevent entries from being added to the grand total.
Here’s how you would use –threshold to find directories with a size
greater than or equal to 200 megabytes:

Here’s how you would use –threshold to find directories and files – the
-a – with an apparent size smaller than or equal to 500 bytes:

Here’s how you would use –threshold to find directories on the root file
system with more than 20000 inodes used in the directory tree below:

‘–time’ ¶
Show the most recent modification timestamp (mtime) of any file in the
directory, or any of its subdirectories. See File timestamps.
‘–time=ctime’ ¶
‘–time=status’
‘–time=use’
Show the most recent status change timestamp (ctime) of any file in the
directory, or any of its subdirectories. See File timestamps.
‘–time=atime’ ¶
‘–time=access’
Show the most recent access timestamp (atime) of any file in the
directory, or any of its subdirectories. See File timestamps.
‘–time-style=style’ ¶
List timestamps in style style. This option has an effect only if the
–time option is also specified. The style should be one of the
following:
‘+format’ ¶
List timestamps using format, where format is interpreted like the
format argument of date (see date: Print or set system date and time).
For example, –time-style="+%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S" causes du to list
timestamps like ‘2020-07-21 23:45:56’. As with date, format’s
interpretation is affected by the LC_TIME locale category.
‘full-iso’
List timestamps in full using ISO 8601-like date, time, and time zone
components with nanosecond precision, e.g., ‘2020-07-21
23:45:56.477817180 -0400’. This style is equivalent to ‘+%Y-%m-%d
%H:%M:%S.%N %z’.
‘long-iso’
List ISO 8601 date and time components with minute precision, e.g.,
‘2020-07-21 23:45’. These timestamps are shorter than ‘full-iso’
timestamps, and are usually good enough for everyday work. This style is
equivalent to ‘+%Y-%m-%d %H:%M’.
‘iso’
List ISO 8601 dates for timestamps, e.g., ‘2020-07-21’. This style is
equivalent to ‘+%Y-%m-%d’.
You can specify the default value of the –time-style option with the
environment variable TIME_STYLE; if TIME_STYLE is not set the default
style is ‘long-iso’. For compatibility with ls, if TIME_STYLE begins
with ‘+’ and contains a newline, the newline and any later characters
are ignored; if TIME_STYLE begins with ‘posix-’ the ‘posix-’ is ignored;
and if TIME_STYLE is ‘locale’ it is ignored.
‘-X file’ ¶
‘–exclude-from=file’
Like –exclude, except take the patterns to exclude from file, one per
line. If file is ‘-’, take the patterns from standard input.
‘–exclude=pattern’ ¶
When recursing, skip subdirectories or files matching pattern. For
example, du –exclude=’*.o’ excludes files whose names end in ‘.o’.
‘-x’ ¶
‘–one-file-system’
Skip directories that are on different file systems from the one that
the argument being processed is on.
Since du relies on information reported by the operating system, its
output might not reflect the space consumed in the underlying devices.
For example;
Operating systems normally do not report device space consumed by
duplicate or backup blocks, error correction bits, and so forth. This
causes du to underestimate the device space actually used.

In file systems that use copy-on-write, if two distinct files share
space the output of du typically counts the space that would be consumed
if all files’ non-holes were rewritten, not the space currently
consumed.

In file systems that use compression, the operating system might report
the uncompressed space. (If it does report the compressed space, that
report might change after one merely overwrites existing file data.)

Networked file systems historically have had difficulty communicating
accurate file system information from server to client.
For these reasons du might better be thought of as an estimate of the
size of a tar or other conventional backup for a set of files, rather
than as a measure of space consumed in the underlying devices.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: sync: Synchronize cached writes to persistent storage, Previous:
du: Estimate file space usage, Up: File space usage   [Contents][Index]

14.3 stat: Report file or file system status ¶

stat displays information about the specified file(s). Synopsis:

With no option, stat reports all information about the given files. But
it also can be used to report the information of the file systems the
given files are located on. If the files are links, stat can also give
information about the files the links point to.
Due to shell aliases and built-in stat functions, using an unadorned
stat interactively or in a script may get you different functionality
than that described here. Invoke it via env (i.e., env stat …) to avoid
interference from the shell.
‘-L’ ¶
‘–dereference’
Change how stat treats symbolic links. With this option, stat acts on
the file referenced by each symbolic link argument. Without it, stat
acts on any symbolic link argument directly.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–file-system’
Report information about the file systems where the given files are
located instead of information about the files themselves. This option
implies the -L option.
‘–cached=mode’ ¶
Control how attributes are read from the file system; if supported by
the system. This allows one to control the trade-off between freshness
and efficiency of attribute access, especially useful with remote file
systems. mode can be:
‘always’
Always read the already cached attributes if available.
‘never’
Always synchronize with the latest file system attributes. This also
mounts automounted files.
‘default’
Leave the caching behavior to the underlying file system.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–format=format’
Use format rather than the default format. format is automatically
newline-terminated, so running a command like the following with two or
more file operands produces a line of output for each operand:

‘–printf=format’ ¶
Use format rather than the default format. Like –format, but interpret
backslash escapes, and do not output a mandatory trailing newline. If
you want a newline, include ‘’ in the format. Here’s how you would use
–printf to print the device and inode numbers of / and /usr:

‘-t’ ¶
‘–terse’
Print the information in terse form, suitable for parsing by other
programs.
The output of the following commands are identical and the –format also
identifies the items printed (in fuller form) in the default format. The
format string would include another ‘%C’ at the end with an active
SELinux security context.

The same illustrating terse output in –file-system mode:

The valid format directives for files with –format and –printf are:
%a – Permission bits in octal (see ‘#’ and ‘0’ printf flags)
%A – Permission bits in symbolic form (similar to ls -ld)
%b – Number of blocks allocated (see ‘%B’)
%B – The size in bytes of each block reported by ‘%b’
%C – The SELinux security context of a file, if available
%d – Device number in decimal (st_dev)
%D – Device number in hex (st_dev)
%Hd – Major device number in decimal
%Ld – Minor device number in decimal
%f – Raw mode in hex
%F – File type
%g – Group ID of owner
%G – Group name of owner
%h – Number of hard links
%i – Inode number
%m – Mount point (see selow)
%n – File name
%N – Quoted file name with dereference if symbolic link (see below)
%o – Optimal I/O transfer size hint
%s – Total size, in bytes
%r – Device type in decimal (st_rdev)
%R – Device type in hex (st_rdev)
%Hr – Major device type in decimal (see below)
%Lr – Minor device type in decimal (see below)
%t – Major device type in hex (see below)
%T – Minor device type in hex (see below)
%u – User ID of owner
%U – User name of owner
%w – Time of file birth, or ‘-’ if unknown
%W – Time of file birth as seconds since Epoch, or ‘0’
%x – Time of last access
%X – Time of last access as seconds since Epoch
%y – Time of last data modification
%Y – Time of last data modification as seconds since Epoch
%z – Time of last status change
%Z – Time of last status change as seconds since Epoch
The ‘%a’ format prints the octal mode, and so it is useful to control
the zero padding of the output with the ‘#’ and ‘0’ printf flags. For
example to pad to at least 3 wide while making larger numbers
unambiguously octal, you can use ‘%#03a’.
The ‘%N’ format can be set with the environment variable QUOTING_STYLE.
If that environment variable is not set, the default value is
‘shell-escape-always’. Valid quoting styles are:
‘literal’
Output strings as-is; this is the same as the –literal (-N) option.
‘shell’
Quote strings for the shell if they contain shell metacharacters or
would cause ambiguous output. The quoting is suitable for
POSIX-compatible shells like bash, but it does not always work for
incompatible shells like csh.
‘shell-always’
Quote strings for the shell, even if they would normally not require
quoting.
‘shell-escape’
Like ‘shell’, but also quote non-printable characters using the POSIX
‘$’’’ syntax suitable for most shells. This is the most general format
as any file name is represented unambiguously and safely. I.e., the full
quoted string can be pasted back to the shell to refer to any file.
Consequently, this is the default format used when ls is outputting to a
tty. Note also that specifying the C locale with LC_ALL=C can be useful
with this output format, to avoid character set conversion issues with
some terminals; e.g., xterm always converting to unicode composed form.
See also Quoting file names.
‘shell-escape-always’
Like ‘shell-escape’, but quote strings even if they would normally not
require quoting.
‘c’
Quote strings as for C character string literals, including the
surrounding double-quote characters; this is the same as the –quote-name
(-Q) option.
‘c-maybe’
Quote strings as for C character string literals, except omit the
surrounding double-quote if no escaping is required.
‘escape’
Quote strings as for C character string literals, except omit the
surrounding double-quote characters; this is the same as the –escape
(-b) option.
‘clocale’
Quote strings as for C character string literals, except use surrounding
quotation marks appropriate for the locale.
‘locale’
Quote strings as for C character string literals, except use surrounding
quotation marks appropriate for the locale, and quote ‘like this’
instead of "like this" in the default C locale. This looks nicer on many
displays.
The ‘r’, ‘R’, ‘%t’, and ‘%T’ formats operate on the st_rdev member of
the stat(2) structure, i.e., the represented device rather than the
containing device, and so are only defined for character and block
special files. On some systems or file types, st_rdev may be used to
represent other quantities.
The ‘%W’, ‘%X’, ‘%Y’, and ‘%Z’ formats accept a precision preceded by a
period to specify the number of digits to print after the decimal point.
For example, ‘%.3X’ outputs the access timestamp to millisecond
precision. If a period is given but no precision, stat uses 9 digits, so
‘%.X’ is equivalent to ‘%.9X’. When discarding excess precision,
timestamps are truncated toward minus infinity.

The mount point printed by ‘%m’ is similar to that output by df, except
that:
stat does not dereference symlinks by default (unless -L is specified)
stat does not search for specified device nodes in the file system list,
instead operating on them directly
stat outputs the alias for a bind mounted file, rather than the initial
mount point of its backing device. One can recursively call stat until
there is no change in output, to get the current base mount point
When listing file system information (–file-system (-f)), you must use a
different set of format directives:
%a – Free blocks available to non-super-user
%b – Total data blocks in file system
%c – Total file nodes in file system
%d – Free file nodes in file system
%f – Free blocks in file system
%i – File System ID in hex
%l – Maximum length of file names
%n – File name
%s – Block size (for faster transfers)
%S – Fundamental block size (for block counts)
%t – Type in hex
%T – Type in human readable form
Timestamps are listed according to the time zone rules specified by the
TZ environment variable, or by the system default rules if TZ is not
set. See Specifying the Time Zone with TZ in The GNU C Library Reference
Manual.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: truncate: Shrink or extend the size of a file, Previous: stat:
Report file or file system status, Up: File space usage  
[Contents][Index]

14.4 sync: Synchronize cached writes to persistent storage ¶

sync synchronizes in memory files or file systems to persistent storage.
Synopsis:

sync writes any data buffered in memory out to the storage device. This
can include (but is not limited to) modified superblocks, modified
inodes, and delayed reads and writes. This must be implemented by the
kernel; The sync program does nothing but exercise the sync, syncfs,
fsync, and fdatasync system calls.
The kernel keeps data in memory to avoid doing (relatively slow) device
reads and writes. This improves performance, but if the computer
crashes, data may be lost or the file system corrupted as a result. The
sync command instructs the kernel to write data in memory to persistent
storage.
If any argument is specified then only those files will be synchronized
using the fsync(2) syscall by default.
If at least one file is specified, it is possible to change the
synchronization method with the following options. Also see Common
options.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–data’
Use fdatasync(2) to sync only the data for the file, and any metadata
required to maintain file system consistency.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–file-system’
Synchronize all the I/O waiting for the file systems that contain the
file, using the syscall syncfs(2). You would usually not specify this
option if passing a device node like ‘/dev/sda’ for example, as that
would sync the containing file system rather than the referenced one.
Depending on the system, passing individual device nodes or files may
have different sync characteristics than using no arguments. I.e.,
arguments passed to fsync(2) may provide greater guarantees through
write barriers, than a global sync(2) used when no arguments are
provided.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Previous: sync: Synchronize cached writes to persistent storage, Up:
File space usage   [Contents][Index]

14.5 truncate: Shrink or extend the size of a file ¶

truncate shrinks or extends the size of each file to the specified size.
Synopsis:

Any file that does not exist is created.
If a file is larger than the specified size, the extra data is lost. If
a file is shorter, it is extended and the sparse extended part (or hole)
reads as zero bytes.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–no-create’
Do not create files that do not exist.
‘-o’ ¶
‘–io-blocks’
Treat size as number of I/O blocks of the file rather than bytes.
‘-r rfile’ ¶
‘–reference=rfile’
Base the size of each file on the size of rfile.
‘-s size’ ¶
‘–size=size’
Set or adjust the size of each file according to size. size is in bytes
unless –io-blocks is specified. size may be, or may be an integer
optionally followed by, one of the following multiplicative suffixes:

and so on for ‘T’, ‘P’, ‘E’, ‘Z’, ‘Y’, ‘R’, and ‘Q’. Binary prefixes can
be used, too: ‘KiB’=‘K’, ‘MiB’=‘M’, and so on.
size may also be prefixed by one of the following to adjust the size of
each file based on its current size:

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: Conditions, Previous: File space usage, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

15 Printing text ¶

This section describes commands that display text strings.
echo: Print a line of text
printf: Format and print data
yes: Print a string until interrupted
Next: printf: Format and print data, Up: Printing text  
[Contents][Index]

15.1 echo: Print a line of text ¶

echo writes each given string to standard output, with a space between
each and a newline after the last one. Synopsis:

Due to shell aliases and built-in echo functions, using an unadorned
echo interactively or in a script may get you different functionality
than that described here. Invoke it via env (i.e., env echo …) to avoid
interference from the shell.
Due to historical and backwards compatibility reasons, certain bare
option-like strings cannot be passed to echo as non-option arguments. It
is therefore not advisable to use echo for printing unknown or variable
arguments. The printf command is recommended as a more portable and
flexible replacement for tasks historically performed by echo. See
printf: Format and print data.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
Options must precede operands, and the normally-special argument ‘–’ has
no special meaning and is treated like any other string.
‘-n’ ¶
Do not output the trailing newline.
‘-e’ ¶
Enable interpretation of the following backslash-escaped characters in
each string:
‘’
alert (bell)
‘/samp>’
backspace
‘/samp>’
produce no further output
‘’
escape
‘/samp>’
form feed
‘’
newline
‘/samp>’
carriage return
‘/samp>’
horizontal tab
‘/samp>’
vertical tab
‘\’
backslash
‘\0nnn’
the eight-bit value that is the octal number nnn (zero to three octal
digits), if nnn is a nine-bit value, the ninth bit is ignored
‘<var class=“var”>nnn’
the eight-bit value that is the octal number nnn (one to three octal
digits), if nnn is a nine-bit value, the ninth bit is ignored
‘hh’
the eight-bit value that is the hexadecimal number hh (one or two
hexadecimal digits)
‘-E’ ¶
Disable interpretation of backslash escapes in each string. This is the
default. If -e and -E are both specified, the last one given takes
effect.
If the POSIXLY_CORRECT environment variable is set, then when echo’s
first argument is not -n it outputs option-like arguments instead of
treating them as options. For example, echo -ne hello outputs ‘-ne
hello’ instead of plain ‘hello’. Also backslash escapes are always
enabled. To echo the string ‘-n’, one of the characters can be escaped
in either octal or hexadecimal representation. For example, echo -e
‘2dn’.
POSIX does not require support for any options, and says that the
behavior of echo is implementation-defined if any string contains a
backslash or if the first argument is -n. Portable programs should use
the printf command instead. See printf: Format and print data.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: yes: Print a string until interrupted, Previous: echo: Print a
line of text, Up: Printing text   [Contents][Index]

15.2 printf: Format and print data ¶
printf does formatted printing of text. Synopsis:

printf prints the format string, interpreting ‘%’ directives and
‘</samp>’ escapes to format numeric and string arguments in a way that
is mostly similar to the C ‘printf’ function, and C language escape
sequence processing. See printf format directives in The GNU C Library
Reference Manual, for details. See also C99 string escapes:. The
differences are listed below.
Due to shell aliases and built-in printf functions, using an unadorned
printf interactively or in a script may get you different functionality
than that described here. Invoke it via env (i.e., env printf …) to
avoid interference from the shell.
The format argument is reused as necessary to convert all the given
arguments. For example, the command ‘printf %s a b’ outputs ‘ab’.

Missing arguments are treated as null strings or as zeros, depending on
whether the context expects a string or a number. For example, the
command ‘printf %sx%d’ prints ‘x0’.

Indexed arguments referenced with ‘%…$</samp>&rsquo; formats, can be
mixed with standard sequential argument references,
in which case both index types are independent.
For example, the command &lsquo;<samp class="samp">printf '%1$s%s’ A’
prints ‘AA’. Also the highest referenced argument, either indexed or
sequential, is considered to be the last one referenced, when
determining unused arguments for reprocessing with the format argument.

An additional escape, ‘/samp>’, causes printf to produce no further
output. For example, the command ‘printf ‘A%sC%sF’ B E’ prints ‘ABC’.

The hexadecimal escape sequence ‘hh’ has at most two digits, as opposed
to C where it can have an unlimited number of digits. For example, the
command ‘printf ‘07e’’ prints two bytes, whereas the C statement ‘printf
("07e")’ prints just one.

An additional directive ‘%b’, prints its argument string with ‘</samp>’
escapes interpreted in the same way as in the format string, except that
octal escapes should have a leading ‘0’ like ‘\0nnn’. If ‘nnn’ is a
nine-bit value, ignore the ninth bit. If a precision is also given, it
limits the number of bytes printed from the converted string.

An additional directive ‘%q’, prints its argument string in a format
that can be reused as input by most shells. Non-printable characters are
escaped with the POSIX ‘$’’’ syntax, and shell metacharacters are quoted
appropriately. This is an equivalent format to ls –quoting=shell-escape
output.

Numeric arguments must be single C constants, possibly with leading ‘+’
or ‘-’. For example, ‘printf %.4d -3’ outputs ‘-0003’.

If the leading character of a numeric argument is ‘"’ or ‘’’ then its
value is the numeric value of the immediately following character. Any
remaining characters are silently ignored if the POSIXLY_CORRECT
environment variable is set; otherwise, a warning is printed. For
example, ‘printf "%d" "’a"’ outputs ‘97’ on hosts that use the ASCII
character set, since ‘a’ has the numeric value 97 in ASCII.

A floating point argument is interpreted according to the LC_NUMERIC
category of either the current or the C locale, and is printed according
to the current locale. For example, in a locale whose decimal point
character is a comma, the command ‘printf ‘%g %g’ 2,5 2.5’ outputs ‘2,5
2,5’. See Floating point numbers.
printf interprets ‘<var class=“var”>ooo’ in format as an octal number
(if ooo is 1 to 3 octal digits) specifying a byte to print, and ‘hh’ as
a hexadecimal number (if hh is 1 to 2 hex digits) specifying a character
to print. However, when ‘<var class=“var”>ooo’ specifies a number larger
than 255, printf ignores the ninth bit. For example, ‘printf ‘\400’’ is
equivalent to ‘printf ‘\0’’.
printf interprets two syntax forms for specifying Unicode (ISO/IEC
10646) characters. ‘/samp>’ for 16-bit Unicode characters, specified as
four hexadecimal digits hhhh, and ‘/samp>’ for 32-bit Unicode
characters, specified as eight hexadecimal digits hhhhhhhh. printf
outputs the Unicode characters according to the LC_CTYPE locale. Unicode
characters in the range U+D800…U+DFFF cannot be specified by this
syntax. This syntax fully supports the universal character subset
introduced in ISO C 99.
The processing of ‘/samp>’ and ‘/samp>’ requires a full-featured iconv
facility. It is activated on systems with glibc 2.2 (or newer), or when
libiconv is installed prior to this package. Otherwise ‘/samp>’ and
‘/samp>’ will print as-is.
Unicode character syntax is useful for writing strings in a locale
independent way. For example, a string containing the Euro currency
symbol

will be output correctly in all locales supporting the Euro symbol
(ISO-8859-15, UTF-8, and others). Similarly, a Chinese string

will be output correctly in all Chinese locales (GB2312, BIG5, UTF-8,
etc).
In these examples, the printf command was invoked via env to ensure that
we run the program found via your shell’s search path, and not a shell
alias or a built-in function.
For larger strings, you don’t need to look up the hexadecimal code
values of each character one by one. ASCII characters mixed with scape
sequences is also known as the JAVA source file encoding. You can use
GNU recode 3.5c (or newer) to convert strings to this encoding. Here is
how to convert a piece of text into a shell script which will output
this text in a locale-independent way:

The only options are a lone –help or –version. To output an argument
that begins with ‘-’, precede it with –, e.g., ‘printf – –help’. See
Common options. Options must precede operands.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Previous: printf: Format and print data, Up: Printing text  
[Contents][Index]

15.3 yes: Print a string until interrupted ¶

yes prints the command line arguments, separated by spaces and followed
by a newline, forever until it is killed. If no arguments are given, it
prints ‘y’ followed by a newline forever until killed.
Upon a write error, yes exits with status ‘1’.
The only options are a lone –help or –version. To output an argument
that begins with ‘-’, precede it with –, e.g., ‘yes – –help’. See Common
options.
Next: Redirection, Previous: Printing text, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

16 Conditions ¶

This section describes commands that are primarily useful for their exit
status, rather than their output. Thus, they are often used as the
condition of shell if statements, or as the last command in a pipeline.
false: Do nothing, unsuccessfully
true: Do nothing, successfully
test: Check file types and compare values
expr: Evaluate expressions
Next: true: Do nothing, successfully, Up: Conditions   [Contents][Index]

16.1 false: Do nothing, unsuccessfully ¶

false does nothing except return an exit status of 1, meaning failure.
It can be used as a place holder in shell scripts where an unsuccessful
command is needed. In most modern shells, false is a built-in command,
so when you use ‘false’ in a script, you’re probably using the built-in
command, not the one documented here.
false honors the –help and –version options.
This version of false is implemented as a C program, and is thus more
secure and faster than a shell script implementation, and may safely be
used as a dummy shell for the purpose of disabling accounts.
Unlike all other programs mentioned in this manual, false always exits
unsuccessfully, even when invoked with –help or –version.
Portable programs should not assume that the exit status of false is 1,
as it is greater than 1 on some non-GNU hosts.
Next: test: Check file types and compare values, Previous: false: Do
nothing, unsuccessfully, Up: Conditions   [Contents][Index]

16.2 true: Do nothing, successfully ¶

true does nothing except return an exit status of 0, meaning success. It
can be used as a place holder in shell scripts where a successful
command is needed, although the shell built-in command : (colon) may do
the same thing faster. In most modern shells, true is a built-in
command, so when you use ‘true’ in a script, you’re probably using the
built-in command, not the one documented here.
true honors the –help and –version options.
However, it is possible to cause true to exit with nonzero status: with
the –help or –version option, and with standard output already closed or
redirected to a file that evokes an I/O error. For example, using a
Bourne-compatible shell:

This version of true is implemented as a C program, and is thus more
secure and faster than a shell script implementation, and may safely be
used as a dummy shell for the purpose of disabling accounts.
Next: expr: Evaluate expressions, Previous: true: Do nothing,
successfully, Up: Conditions   [Contents][Index]

16.3 test: Check file types and compare values ¶

test returns a status of 0 (true) or 1 (false) depending on the
evaluation of the conditional expression expr. Each part of the
expression must be a separate argument.
test has file status checks, string operators, and numeric comparison
operators.
test has an alternate form that uses opening and closing square brackets
instead a leading ‘test’. For example, instead of ‘test -d /’, you can
write ‘[ -d / ]’. The square brackets must be separate arguments; for
example, ‘[-d /]’ does not have the desired effect. Since ‘test expr’
and ‘[ expr ]’ have the same meaning, only the former form is discussed
below.
Synopses:

Due to shell aliases and built-in test functions, using an unadorned
test interactively or in a script may get you different functionality
than that described here. Invoke it via env (i.e., env test …) to avoid
interference from the shell.
If expression is omitted, test returns false. If expression is a single
argument, test returns false if the argument is null and true otherwise.
The argument can be any string, including strings like ‘-d’, ‘-1’, ‘–’,
‘–help’, and ‘–version’ that most other programs would treat as options.
To get help and version information, invoke the commands ‘[ –help’ and
‘[ –version’, without the usual closing brackets. See Common options.
Exit status:

File type tests
Access permission tests
File characteristic tests
String tests
Numeric tests
Connectives for test
Next: Access permission tests, Up: test: Check file types and compare
values   [Contents][Index]

16.3.1 File type tests ¶

These options test for particular types of files. (Everything’s a file,
but not all files are the same!)
‘-b file’ ¶
True if file exists and is a block special device.
‘-c file’ ¶
True if file exists and is a character special device.
‘-d file’ ¶
True if file exists and is a directory.
‘-f file’ ¶
True if file exists and is a regular file.
‘-h file’ ¶
‘-L file’
True if file exists and is a symbolic link. Unlike all other
file-related tests, this test does not dereference file if it is a
symbolic link.
‘-p file’ ¶
True if file exists and is a named pipe.
‘-S file’ ¶
True if file exists and is a socket.
‘-t fd’ ¶
True if fd is a file descriptor that is associated with a terminal.
Next: File characteristic tests, Previous: File type tests, Up: test:
Check file types and compare values   [Contents][Index]

16.3.2 Access permission tests ¶

These options test for particular access permissions.
‘-g file’ ¶
True if file exists and has its set-group-ID bit set.
‘-k file’ ¶
True if file exists and has its sticky bit set.
‘-r file’ ¶
True if file exists and the user has read access.
‘-u file’ ¶
True if file exists and has its set-user-ID bit set.
‘-w file’ ¶
True if file exists and the user has write access.
‘-x file’ ¶
True if file exists and the user has execute access (or search
permission, if it is a directory).
‘-O file’ ¶
True if file exists and is owned by the current effective user ID.
‘-G file’ ¶
True if file exists and is owned by the current effective group ID.
Next: String tests, Previous: Access permission tests, Up: test: Check
file types and compare values   [Contents][Index]

16.3.3 File characteristic tests ¶

These options test other file characteristics.
‘-e file’ ¶
True if file exists.
‘-s file’ ¶
True if file exists and has a size greater than zero.
‘file1 -nt file2’ ¶
True if file1 is newer (according to modification date) than file2, or
if file1 exists and file2 does not.
‘file1 -ot file2’ ¶
True if file1 is older (according to modification date) than file2, or
if file2 exists and file1 does not.
‘file1 -ef file2’ ¶
True if file1 and file2 have the same device and inode numbers, i.e., if
they are hard links to each other.
‘-N file’ ¶
True if file exists and has been modified (mtime) since it was last read
(atime).
Next: Numeric tests, Previous: File characteristic tests, Up: test:
Check file types and compare values   [Contents][Index]

16.3.4 String tests ¶

These options test string characteristics. You may need to quote string
arguments for the shell. For example:

The quotes here prevent the wrong arguments from being passed to test if
‘$V’ is empty or contains special characters.
‘-z string’ ¶
True if the length of string is zero.
‘-n string’ ¶
‘string’
True if the length of string is nonzero.
‘string1 = string2’ ¶
True if the strings are equal.
‘string1 == string2’ ¶
True if the strings are equal (synonym for ‘=’). This form is not as
portable to other shells and systems.
‘string1 != string2’ ¶
True if the strings are not equal.
‘string1 > string2’ ¶
True if string1 is greater than string2 in the current locale.
‘string1 < string2’ ¶
True if string1 is less than string2 in the current locale.
Next: Connectives for test, Previous: String tests, Up: test: Check file
types and compare values   [Contents][Index]

16.3.5 Numeric tests ¶

Numeric relational operators. The arguments must be entirely numeric
(possibly negative), or the special expression -l string, which
evaluates to the length of string.
‘arg1 -eq arg2’ ¶
‘arg1 -ne arg2’
‘arg1 -lt arg2’
‘arg1 -le arg2’
‘arg1 -gt arg2’
‘arg1 -ge arg2’
These arithmetic binary operators return true if arg1 is equal,
not-equal, less-than, less-than-or-equal, greater-than, or
greater-than-or-equal than arg2, respectively.
For example:

Previous: Numeric tests, Up: test: Check file types and compare values  
[Contents][Index]

16.3.6 Connectives for test ¶

It is better to use shell logical primitives rather than these logical
connectives internal to test, because an expression may become ambiguous
depending on the expansion of its parameters.
For example, this becomes ambiguous when ‘$1’ is set to ‘‘!’’ and ‘$2’
to the empty string ‘’’’:

and should be written as:

The shell logical primitives also benefit from short circuit operation,
which can be significant for file attribute tests.
‘! expr’ ¶
True if expr is false. ‘!’ has lower precedence than all parts of expr.
The ‘!’ should be specified to the left of a binary expression, I.e., ‘!
1 -gt 2’ rather than ‘1 ! -gt 2’.
‘expr1 -a expr2’ ¶
True if both expr1 and expr2 are true. ‘-a’ is left associative, and has
a higher precedence than ‘-o’.
‘expr1 -o expr2’ ¶
True if either expr1 or expr2 is true. ‘-o’ is left associative.
Previous: test: Check file types and compare values, Up: Conditions  
[Contents][Index]

16.4 expr: Evaluate expressions ¶

expr evaluates an expression and writes the result on standard output.
Each token of the expression must be a separate argument.
Operands are either integers or strings. Integers consist of one or more
decimal digits, with an optional leading ‘-’. expr converts anything
appearing in an operand position to an integer or a string depending on
the operation being applied to it.
Strings are not quoted for expr itself, though you may need to quote
them to protect characters with special meaning to the shell, e.g.,
spaces. However, regardless of whether it is quoted, a string operand
should not be a parenthesis or any of expr’s operators like +, so you
cannot safely pass an arbitrary string
$str</code> to expr merely by quoting it to the shell.  One way to
work around this is to use the GNU extension <code class="code">+</code>,
(e.g., <code class="code">+ &quot;$str" = foo); a more portable way is
to use
" $str&quot;<!-- /@w --></code> and to adjust the rest of the expression to take
the leading space into account (e.g., <code class="code">&quot;&nbsp;$str" = " foo").
You should not pass a negative integer or a string with leading ‘-’ as
expr’s first argument, as it might be misinterpreted as an option; this
can be avoided by parenthesization. Also, portable scripts should not
use a string operand that happens to take the form of an integer; this
can be worked around by inserting leading spaces as mentioned above.
Operators may be given as infix symbols or prefix keywords. Parentheses
may be used for grouping in the usual manner. You must quote parentheses
and many operators to avoid the shell evaluating them, however.
Because expr uses multiple-precision arithmetic, it works with integers
wider than those of machine registers.
The only options are –help and –version. See Common options. Options
must precede operands.
Exit status:

String expressions
Numeric expressions
Relations for expr
Examples of using expr
Next: Numeric expressions, Up: expr: Evaluate expressions  
[Contents][Index]

16.4.1 String expressions ¶

expr supports pattern matching and other string operators. These have
higher precedence than both the numeric and relational operators (in the
next sections).
‘string : regex’ ¶
Perform pattern matching. The arguments are converted to strings and the
second is considered to be a (basic, a la GNU grep) regular expression,
with a ^ implicitly prepended. The first argument is then matched
against this regular expression.
If regex does not use ‘(’ and ‘)’, the : expression returns the number
of characters matched, or 0 if the match fails.
If regex uses ‘(’ and ‘)’, the : expression returns the part of string
that matched the subexpression, or the null string if the match failed
or the subexpression did not contribute to the match.
Only the first ‘( … )’ pair is relevant to the return value; additional
pairs are meaningful only for grouping the regular expression operators.
In the regular expression, +, ?, and | are operators which respectively
match one or more, zero or one, or separate alternatives. These
operators are GNU extensions. See Regular Expressions in The GNU Grep
Manual, for details of regular expression syntax. Some examples are in
Examples of using expr.
‘match string regex’ ¶
An alternative way to do pattern matching. This is the same as
‘string : regex’.
‘substr string position length’ ¶
Returns the substring of string beginning at position with length at
most length. If either position or length is negative, zero, or
non-numeric, returns the null string.
‘index string charset’ ¶
Returns the first position in string where the first character in
charset was found. If no character in charset is found in string, return
0.
‘length string’ ¶
Returns the length of string.
‘+ token’ ¶
Interpret token as a string, even if it is a keyword like match or an
operator like /. This makes it possible to test expr length +
"$x&quot;</code> or
<code class="code">expr + &quot;$x" : ‘./(.)’ and have it do the right
thing even if the value of
$x</var> happens to be (for example) <code class="code">/</code> or <code class="code">index</code>.
This operator is a GNU extension.  Portable shell scripts should use
<code class="code">&quot;&nbsp;$token" : ’ (.)’ instead of + "$token".
To make expr interpret keywords as strings, you must use the quote
operator.
Next: Relations for expr, Previous: String expressions, Up: expr:
Evaluate expressions   [Contents][Index]

16.4.2 Numeric expressions ¶

expr supports the usual numeric operators, in order of increasing
precedence. These numeric operators have lower precedence than the
string operators described in the previous section, and higher
precedence than the connectives (next section).
‘+ -’ ¶
Addition and subtraction. Both arguments are converted to integers; an
error occurs if this cannot be done.
‘* / %’ ¶
Multiplication, division, remainder. Both arguments are converted to
integers; an error occurs if this cannot be done.
Next: Examples of using expr, Previous: Numeric expressions, Up: expr:
Evaluate expressions   [Contents][Index]

16.4.3 Relations for expr ¶

expr supports the usual logical connectives and relations. These have
lower precedence than the string and numeric operators (previous
sections). Here is the list, lowest-precedence operator first.
‘|’ ¶
Returns its first argument if that is neither null nor zero, otherwise
its second argument if it is neither null nor zero, otherwise 0. It does
not evaluate its second argument if its first argument is neither null
nor zero.
‘&’ ¶
Return its first argument if neither argument is null or zero, otherwise
0. It does not evaluate its second argument if its first argument is
null or zero.
‘< <= = == != >= >’ ¶
Compare the arguments and return 1 if the relation is true, 0 otherwise.
== is a synonym for =. expr first tries to convert both arguments to
integers and do a numeric comparison; if either conversion fails, it
does a lexicographic comparison using the character collating sequence
specified by the LC_COLLATE locale.
Previous: Relations for expr, Up: expr: Evaluate expressions  
[Contents][Index]

16.4.4 Examples of using expr ¶
Here are a few examples, including quoting for shell metacharacters.
To add 1 to the shell variable foo, in Bourne-compatible shells:

To print the non-directory part of the file name stored in $fname, which
need not contain a /:

An example showing that + is an operator:

Next: File name manipulation, Previous: Conditions, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

17 Redirection ¶

Unix shells commonly provide several forms of redirection – ways to
change the input source or output destination of a command. But one
useful redirection is performed by a separate command, not by the shell;
it’s described here.
tee: Redirect output to multiple files or processes
Up: Redirection   [Contents][Index]

17.1 tee: Redirect output to multiple files or processes ¶

The tee command copies standard input to standard output and also to any
files given as arguments. This is useful when you want not only to send
some data down a pipe, but also to save a copy. Synopsis:

If a file being written to does not already exist, it is created. If a
file being written to already exists, the data it previously contained
is overwritten unless the -a option is used.
In previous versions of GNU Coreutils (5.3.0–8.23), a file of ‘-’ caused
tee to send another copy of input to standard output. However, as the
interleaved output was not very useful, tee now conforms to POSIX and
treats ‘-’ as a file name.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-a’ ¶
‘–append’
Append standard input to the given files rather than overwriting them.
‘-i’ ¶
‘–ignore-interrupts’
Ignore interrupt signals.
‘-p’ ¶
‘–output-error[=mode]’
Adjust the behavior with errors on the outputs. In summary -p allows tee
to operate in a more appropriate manner with pipes, and to continue to
process data to any remaining outputs, if any pipe outputs exit early.
The default operation when –output-error is not specified is to exit
immediately on error writing to a pipe, and diagnose errors writing to a
non-pipe. The long form –output-error option supports selection between
the following modes:
‘warn’
Warn on error opening or writing any output, including pipes. Writing is
continued to still open files/pipes. Exit status indicates failure if
any output has an error.
‘warn-nopipe’
This is the default mode when not specified, or when the short form -p
is used. Warn on error opening or writing any output, except pipes.
Writing is continued to still open files/pipes. Exit immediately if all
remaining outputs become broken pipes. Exit status indicates failure if
any non pipe output had an error.
‘exit’
Exit on error opening or writing any output, including pipes.
‘exit-nopipe’
Exit on error opening or writing any output, except pipes. Exit
immediately if all remaining outputs become broken pipes.
The tee command is useful when you happen to be transferring a large
amount of data and also want to summarize that data without reading it a
second time. For example, when you are downloading a DVD image, you
often want to verify its signature or checksum right away. The
inefficient way to do it is simply:

One problem with the above is that it makes you wait for the download to
complete before starting the time-consuming SHA-256 computation. Perhaps
even more importantly, the above requires reading the DVD image a second
time (the first was from the network).
The efficient way to do it is to interleave the download and SHA-256
computation. Then, you’ll get the checksum for free, because the entire
process parallelizes so well:

That makes tee write not just to the expected output file, but also to a
pipe running cksum and saving the final checksum in a file named
dvd.sha256.
However, this example relies on a feature of modern shells called
process substitution (the ‘>(command)’ syntax, above; See Process
Substitution in The Bash Reference Manual.), so it works with zsh, bash,
and ksh, but not with /bin/sh. So if you write code like this in a shell
script, start the script with ‘#!/bin/bash’.
If any of the process substitutions (or piped standard output) might
exit early without consuming all the data, the -p option is needed to
allow tee to continue to process the input to any remaining outputs.
Since the above example writes to one file and one process, a more
conventional and portable use of tee is even better:

You can extend this example to make tee write to two processes,
computing SHA-256 and SHA3-256 checksums in parallel. In this case,
process substitution is required:

This technique is also useful when you want to make a compressed copy of
the contents of a pipe. Consider a tool to graphically summarize file
system usage data from ‘du -ak’. For a large hierarchy, ‘du -ak’ can run
for a long time, and can easily produce terabytes of data, so you won’t
want to rerun the command unnecessarily. Nor will you want to save the
uncompressed output.
Doing it the inefficient way, you can’t even start the GUI until after
you’ve compressed all of the du output:

With tee and process substitution, you start the GUI right away and
eliminate the decompression completely:

Finally, if you regularly create more than one type of compressed
tarball at once, for example when make dist creates both gzip-compressed
and bzip2-compressed tarballs, there may be a better way. Typical
automake-generated Makefile rules create the two compressed tar archives
with commands in sequence, like this (slightly simplified):

However, if the hierarchy you are archiving and compressing is larger
than a couple megabytes, and especially if you are using a
multi-processor system with plenty of memory, then you can do much
better by reading the directory contents only once and running the
compression programs in parallel:

If you want to further process the output from process substitutions,
and those processes write atomically (i.e., write less than the system’s
PIPE_BUF size at a time), that’s possible with a construct like:

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: Working context, Previous: Redirection, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

18 File name manipulation ¶

This section describes commands that manipulate file names.
basename: Strip directory and suffix from a file name
dirname: Strip last file name component
pathchk: Check file name validity and portability
mktemp: Create temporary file or directory
realpath: Print the resolved file name.
Next: dirname: Strip last file name component, Up: File name
manipulation   [Contents][Index]

18.1 basename: Strip directory and suffix from a file name ¶

basename removes any leading directory components from name. Synopsis:

If suffix is specified and is identical to the end of name, it is
removed from name as well. Since trailing slashes are removed prior to
suffix matching, suffix will do nothing if it contains slashes. basename
prints the result on standard output.
Together, basename and dirname are designed such that if ‘ls
"$name&quot;</samp>&rsquo; succeeds, then the command sequence &lsquo;<samp class="samp">cd
&quot;$(dirname "$name&quot;)&quot;; ls &quot;$(basename "$name")"’
will, too. This works for everything except file names containing a
trailing newline.
POSIX allows the implementation to define the results if name is empty
or ‘//’. In the former case, GNU basename returns the empty string. In
the latter case, the result is ‘//’ on platforms where // is distinct
from /, and ‘/’ on platforms where there is no difference.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
Options must precede operands.
‘-a’ ¶
‘–multiple’
Support more than one argument. Treat every argument as a name. With
this, an optional suffix must be specified using the -s option.
‘-s suffix’ ¶
‘–suffix=suffix’
Remove a trailing suffix. This option implies the -a option.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero’
Output a zero byte (ASCII NUL) at the end of each line, rather than a
newline. This option enables other programs to parse the output even
when that output would contain data with embedded newlines.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Examples:

Next: pathchk: Check file name validity and portability, Previous:
basename: Strip directory and suffix from a file name, Up: File name
manipulation   [Contents][Index]

18.2 dirname: Strip last file name component ¶

dirname prints all but the final slash-delimited component of each name.
Slashes on either side of the final component are also removed. If the
string contains no slash, dirname prints ‘.’ (meaning the current
directory). Synopsis:

name need not be a file name, but if it is, this operation effectively
lists the directory that contains the final component, including the
case when the final component is itself a directory.
Together, basename and dirname are designed such that if ‘ls
"$name&quot;</samp>&rsquo; succeeds, then the command sequence &lsquo;<samp class="samp">cd
&quot;$(dirname "$name&quot;)&quot;; ls &quot;$(basename "$name")"’
will, too. This works for everything except file names containing a
trailing newline.
POSIX allows the implementation to define the results if name is ‘//’.
With GNU dirname, the result is ‘//’ on platforms where // is distinct
from /, and ‘/’ on platforms where there is no difference.
The program accepts the following option. Also see Common options.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero’
Output a zero byte (ASCII NUL) at the end of each line, rather than a
newline. This option enables other programs to parse the output even
when that output would contain data with embedded newlines.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Examples:

Next: mktemp: Create temporary file or directory, Previous: dirname:
Strip last file name component, Up: File name manipulation  
[Contents][Index]

18.3 pathchk: Check file name validity and portability ¶

pathchk checks validity and portability of file names. Synopsis:

For each name, pathchk prints an error message if any of these
conditions is true:
One of the existing directories in name does not have search (execute)
permission,
The length of name is larger than the maximum supported by the operating
system.
The length of one component of name is longer than its file system’s
maximum.
A nonexistent name is not an error, so long as a file with that name
could be created under the above conditions.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
Options must precede operands.
‘-p’ ¶
Instead of performing checks based on the underlying file system, print
an error message if any of these conditions is true:
A file name is empty.

A file name contains a character outside the POSIX portable file name
character set, namely, the ASCII letters and digits, ‘.’, ‘_’, ‘-’, and
‘/’.

The length of a file name or one of its components exceeds the POSIX
minimum limits for portability.
‘-P’ ¶
Print an error message if a file name is empty, or if it contains a
component that begins with ‘-’.
‘–portability’ ¶
Print an error message if a file name is not portable to all POSIX
hosts. This option is equivalent to ‘-p -P’.
Exit status:

Next: realpath: Print the resolved file name., Previous: pathchk: Check
file name validity and portability, Up: File name manipulation  
[Contents][Index]

18.4 mktemp: Create temporary file or directory ¶

mktemp manages the creation of temporary files and directories.
Synopsis:

Safely create a temporary file or directory based on template, and print
its name. If given, template must include at least three consecutive
‘X’s in the last component. If omitted, the template ‘tmp.XXXXXXXXXX’ is
used, and option –tmpdir is implied. The final run of ‘X’s in the
template will be replaced by alphanumeric characters; thus, on a
case-sensitive file system, and with a template including a run of n
instances of ‘X’, there are ‘62**n’ potential file names.
Older scripts used to create temporary files by simply joining the name
of the program with the process id (‘$$</samp>&rsquo;) as a suffix.
However, that naming scheme is easily predictable, and suffers from a
race condition where the attacker can create an appropriately named
symbolic link, such that when the script then opens a handle to what
it thought was an unused file, it is instead modifying an existing
file.  Using the same scheme to create a directory is slightly safer,
since the <code class="command">mkdir</code> will fail if the target already exists, but
it is still inferior because it allows for denial of service attacks.
Therefore, modern scripts should use the <code class="command">mktemp</code> command to
guarantee that the generated name will be unpredictable, and that
knowledge of the temporary file name implies that the file was created
by the current script and cannot be modified by other users.
</p>
<p>When creating a file, the resulting file has read and write
permissions for the current user, but no permissions for the group or
others; these permissions are reduced if the current umask is more
restrictive.
</p>
<p>Here are some examples (although if you try them, you
will most likely get different file names):
</p>
<ul class="itemize mark-bullet">
<li>Create a temporary file in the current directory.
<div class="example">
<pre class="example-preformatted">$ mktemp file.XXXX file.H47c
Create a temporary file with a known suffix.

Create a secure fifo relative to the user’s choice of TMPDIR, but
falling back to the current directory rather than /tmp. Although mktemp
does not create fifos, it can create a secure directory in which fifos
can live. Exit the shell if the directory or fifo could not be created.

Create and use a temporary file if possible, but ignore failure. The
file will reside in the directory named by TMPDIR, if specified, or else
in /tmp.

Act as a semi-random character generator (it is not fully random, since
it is impacted by the contents of the current directory). To avoid
security holes, do not use the resulting names to create a file.

The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–directory’
Create a directory rather than a file. The directory will have read,
write, and search permissions for the current user, but no permissions
for the group or others; these permissions are reduced if the current
umask is more restrictive.
‘-q’ ¶
‘–quiet’
Suppress diagnostics about failure to create a file or directory. The
exit status will still reflect whether a file was created.
‘-u’ ¶
‘–dry-run’
Generate a temporary name that does not name an existing file, without
changing the file system contents. Using the output of this command to
create a new file is inherently unsafe, as there is a window of time
between generating the name and using it where another process can
create an object by the same name.
‘-p dir’ ¶
‘–tmpdir[=dir]’
Treat template relative to the directory dir. If dir is not specified
(only possible with the long option –tmpdir) or is the empty string, use
the value of TMPDIR if available, otherwise use ‘/tmp’. If this is
specified, template must not be absolute. However, template can still
contain slashes, although intermediate directories must already exist.
‘–suffix=suffix’ ¶
Append suffix to the template. suffix must not contain slash. If –suffix
is specified, template must end in ‘X’; if it is not specified, then an
appropriate –suffix is inferred by finding the last ‘X’ in template.
This option exists for use with the default template and for the
creation of a suffix that starts with ‘X’.
‘-t’ ¶
Treat template as a single file relative to the value of TMPDIR if
available, or to the directory specified by -p, otherwise to ‘/tmp’.
template must not contain slashes. This option is deprecated; the use of
-p without -t offers better defaults (by favoring the command line over
TMPDIR) and more flexibility (by allowing intermediate directories).
Exit status:

Previous: mktemp: Create temporary file or directory, Up: File name
manipulation   [Contents][Index]

18.5 realpath: Print the resolved file name. ¶

The realpath command outputs a file’s canonicalized name, which is an
absolute file name that contains neither unnecessary ‘/’ nor components
that are ‘.’, ‘..’, or a symbolic link.
Synopsis:

By default, realpath succeeds if every file name component but the last
names an existing directory. It ignores trailing slashes that are not
also leading slashes.
The file name canonicalization functionality overlaps with that of the
readlink command. This is the preferred command for canonicalization as
it’s a more suitable and standard name. In addition this command
supports relative file name processing functionality.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-E’ ¶
‘–canonicalize’
Do not fail merely because the named file does not exist. Although this
is the default behavior of GNU realpath, POSIX does not require this
default, so portable applications should use an explicit -E.
‘-e’ ¶
‘–canonicalize-existing’
Fail if the named file does not exist. A trailing slash requires that
the name resolve to a directory.
‘-m’ ¶
‘–canonicalize-missing’
If any component of a specified file name is missing or unavailable,
treat it as a directory.
‘-L’ ¶
‘–logical’
Symbolic links are resolved in the specified file names, but they are
resolved after any subsequent ‘..’ components are processed.
‘-P’ ¶
‘–physical’
Symbolic links are resolved in the specified file names, and they are
resolved before any subsequent ‘..’ components are processed. This is
the default mode of operation.
‘-q’ ¶
‘–quiet’
Suppress diagnostic messages for specified file names.
‘–relative-to=dir’ ¶
Print the resolved file names relative to the specified directory. This
option honors the -m and -e options pertaining to file existence.
‘–relative-base=dir’ ¶
Print the resolved file names as relative if the files are descendants
of dir. Otherwise, print the resolved file names as absolute. This
option honors the -m and -e options pertaining to file existence. For
details about combining –relative-to and –relative-base, see Realpath
usage examples.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–strip’
‘–no-symlinks’
Do not resolve symbolic links. Only resolve references to ‘/./’, ‘/../’
and remove extra ‘/’ characters. When combined with the -m option,
realpath operates only on the file name, and does not touch any actual
file.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero’
Output a zero byte (ASCII NUL) at the end of each line, rather than a
newline. This option enables other programs to parse the output even
when that output would contain data with embedded newlines.
Exit status:

Realpath usage examples
Up: realpath: Print the resolved file name.   [Contents][Index]

18.5.1 Realpath usage examples ¶

By default, realpath prints the absolute file name of given files
(symlinks are resolved, words is resolved to american-english):

With –relative-to, file names are printed relative to the given
directory:

With –relative-base, relative file names are printed if the resolved
file name is below the given base directory. For files outside the base
directory absolute file names are printed:

When both –relative-to=DIR1 and –relative-base=DIR2 are used, file names
are printed relative to dir1 if they are located below dir2. If the
files are not below dir2, they are printed as absolute file names:

When both –relative-to=DIR1 and –relative-base=DIR2 are used, dir1 must
be a subdirectory of dir2. Otherwise, realpath prints absolutes file
names.
Next: User information, Previous: File name manipulation, Up: GNU
Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

19 Working context ¶

This section describes commands that display or alter the context in
which you are working: the current directory, the terminal settings, and
so forth. See also the user-related commands in the next section.
pwd: Print working directory
stty: Print or change terminal characteristics
printenv: Print all or some environment variables
tty: Print file name of terminal on standard input
Next: stty: Print or change terminal characteristics, Up: Working
context   [Contents][Index]

19.1 pwd: Print working directory ¶

pwd prints the name of the current directory. Synopsis:

The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-L’ ¶
‘–logical’
If the contents of the environment variable PWD provide an absolute name
of the current directory with no ‘.’ or ‘..’ components, but possibly
with symbolic links, then output those contents. Otherwise, fall back to
default -P handling.
‘-P’ ¶
‘–physical’
Print a fully resolved name for the current directory. That is, all
components of the printed name will be actual directory names – none
will be symbolic links.
If -L and -P are both given, the last one takes precedence. If neither
option is given, then this implementation uses -P as the default unless
the POSIXLY_CORRECT environment variable is set.
Due to shell aliases and built-in pwd functions, using an unadorned pwd
interactively or in a script may get you different functionality than
that described here. Invoke it via env (i.e., env pwd …) to avoid
interference from the shell.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: printenv: Print all or some environment variables, Previous: pwd:
Print working directory, Up: Working context   [Contents][Index]

19.2 stty: Print or change terminal characteristics ¶

stty prints or changes terminal characteristics, such as baud rate.
Synopses:

If given no line settings, stty prints the baud rate, line discipline
number (on systems that support it), and line settings that have been
changed from the values set by ‘stty sane’. By default, mode reading and
setting are performed on the tty line connected to standard input,
although this can be modified by the –file option.
stty accepts many non-option arguments that change aspects of the
terminal line operation, as described below.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-a’ ¶
‘–all’
Print all current settings in human-readable form. This option may not
be used in combination with any line settings.
‘-F device’ ¶
‘–file=device’
Set the line opened by the file name specified in device instead of the
tty line connected to standard input. This option is necessary because
opening a POSIX tty requires use of the O_NONDELAY flag to prevent a
POSIX tty from blocking until the carrier detect line is high if the
clocal flag is not set. Hence, it is not always possible to allow the
shell to open the device in the traditional manner.
‘-g’ ¶
‘–save’
Print all current settings in a form that can be used as an argument to
another stty command to restore the current settings. This option may
not be used in combination with any line settings.
Many settings can be turned off by preceding them with a ‘-’. Such
arguments are marked below with “May be negated” in their description.
The descriptions themselves refer to the positive case, that is, when
not negated (unless stated otherwise, of course).
Some settings are not available on all POSIX systems, since they use
extensions. Such arguments are marked below with “Non-POSIX” in their
description. On non-POSIX systems, those or other settings also may not
be available, but it’s not feasible to document all the variations: just
try it and see.
stty is installed only on platforms with the POSIX terminal interface,
so portable scripts should not rely on its existence on non-POSIX
platforms.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Control settings
Input settings
Output settings
Local settings
Combination settings
Special characters
Special settings
Next: Input settings, Up: stty: Print or change terminal characteristics
  [Contents][Index]

19.2.1 Control settings ¶
Control settings:
‘parenb’ ¶
Generate parity bit in output and expect parity bit in input. May be
negated.
‘parodd’ ¶
Set odd parity (even if negated). May be negated.
‘cmspar’ ¶
Use “stick” (mark/space) parity. If parodd is set, the parity bit is
always 1; if parodd is not set, the parity bit is always zero.
Non-POSIX. May be negated.
‘cs5’ ¶
‘cs6’
‘cs7’
‘cs8’
Set character size to 5, 6, 7, or 8 bits.
‘hup’ ¶
‘hupcl’
Send a hangup signal when the last process closes the tty. May be
negated.
‘cstopb’ ¶
Use two stop bits per character (one if negated). May be negated.
‘cread’ ¶
Allow input to be received. May be negated.
‘clocal’ ¶
Disable modem control signals. May be negated.
‘crtscts’ ¶
Enable RTS/CTS flow control. Non-POSIX. May be negated.
‘cdtrdsr’ ¶
Enable DTR/DSR flow control. Non-POSIX. May be negated.
Next: Output settings, Previous: Control settings, Up: stty: Print or
change terminal characteristics   [Contents][Index]

19.2.2 Input settings ¶
These settings control operations on data received from the terminal.
‘ignbrk’ ¶
Ignore break characters. May be negated.
‘brkint’ ¶
Make breaks cause an interrupt signal. May be negated.
‘ignpar’ ¶
Ignore characters with parity errors. May be negated.
‘parmrk’ ¶
Mark parity errors (with a 255-0-character sequence). May be negated.
‘inpck’ ¶
Enable input parity checking. May be negated.
‘istrip’ ¶
Clear high (8th) bit of input characters. May be negated.
‘inlcr’ ¶
Translate newline to carriage return. May be negated.
‘igncr’ ¶
Ignore carriage return. May be negated.
‘icrnl’ ¶
Translate carriage return to newline. May be negated.
‘iutf8’ ¶
Assume input characters are UTF-8 encoded. May be negated.
‘ixon’ ¶
Enable XON/XOFF flow control (that is, Ctrl-S/Ctrl-Q). May be negated.
‘ixoff’ ¶
‘tandem’
Enable sending of stop character when the system input buffer is almost
full, and start character when it becomes almost empty again. May be
negated.
‘iuclc’ ¶
Translate uppercase characters to lowercase. Non-POSIX. May be negated.
There is no ‘ilcuc’ setting, as one would not be able to issue almost
any (lowercase) Unix command, after invoking it.
‘ixany’ ¶
Allow any character to restart output (only the start character if
negated). Non-POSIX. May be negated.
‘imaxbel’ ¶
Enable beeping and not flushing input buffer if a character arrives when
the input buffer is full. Non-POSIX. May be negated.
Next: Local settings, Previous: Input settings, Up: stty: Print or
change terminal characteristics   [Contents][Index]

19.2.3 Output settings ¶
These settings control operations on data sent to the terminal.
‘opost’ ¶
Postprocess output. May be negated.
‘olcuc’ ¶
Translate lowercase characters to uppercase. Non-POSIX. May be negated.
(There is no ‘ouclc’.)
‘ocrnl’ ¶
Translate carriage return to newline. Non-POSIX. May be negated.
‘onlcr’ ¶
Translate newline to carriage return-newline. Non-POSIX. May be negated.
‘onocr’ ¶
Do not print carriage returns in the first column. Non-POSIX. May be
negated.
‘onlret’ ¶
Newline performs a carriage return. Non-POSIX. May be negated.
‘ofill’ ¶
Use fill (padding) characters instead of timing for delays. Non-POSIX.
May be negated.
‘ofdel’ ¶
Use ASCII DEL characters for fill instead of ASCII NUL characters.
Non-POSIX. May be negated.
‘nl1’ ¶
‘nl0’
Newline delay style. Non-POSIX.
‘cr3’ ¶
‘cr2’
‘cr1’
‘cr0’
Carriage return delay style. Non-POSIX.
‘tab3’ ¶
‘tab2’
‘tab1’
‘tab0’
Horizontal tab delay style. Non-POSIX.
‘bs1’ ¶
‘bs0’
Backspace delay style. Non-POSIX.
‘vt1’ ¶
‘vt0’
Vertical tab delay style. Non-POSIX.
‘ff1’ ¶
‘ff0’
Form feed delay style. Non-POSIX.
Next: Combination settings, Previous: Output settings, Up: stty: Print
or change terminal characteristics   [Contents][Index]

19.2.4 Local settings ¶

‘isig’ ¶
Enable interrupt, quit, and suspend special characters. May be negated.
‘icanon’ ¶
Enable erase, kill, werase, and rprnt special characters. May be
negated.
‘iexten’ ¶
Enable non-POSIX special characters. May be negated.
‘echo’ ¶
Echo input characters. May be negated.
‘echoe’ ¶
‘crterase’
Echo erase characters as backspace-space-backspace. May be negated.
‘echok’ ¶
Echo a newline after a kill character. May be negated.
‘echonl’ ¶
Echo newline even if not echoing other characters. May be negated.
‘noflsh’ ¶
Disable flushing after interrupt and quit special characters. May be
negated.
‘xcase’ ¶
Enable input and output of uppercase characters by preceding their
lowercase equivalents with ‘</samp>’, when icanon is set. Non-POSIX. May
be negated.
‘tostop’ ¶
Stop background jobs that try to write to the terminal. Non-POSIX. May
be negated.
‘echoprt’ ¶
‘prterase’
Echo erased characters backward, between ‘</samp>’ and ‘/’. Non-POSIX.
May be negated.
‘echoctl’ ¶
‘ctlecho’
Echo control characters in hat notation (‘^c’) instead of literally.
Non-POSIX. May be negated.
‘echoke’ ¶
‘crtkill’
Echo the kill special character by erasing each character on the line as
indicated by the echoprt and echoe settings, instead of by the echoctl
and echok settings. Non-POSIX. May be negated.
‘extproc’ ¶
Enable ‘LINEMODE’, which is used to avoid echoing each character over
high latency links. See also Internet RFC 1116. Non-POSIX. May be
negated.
‘flusho’ ¶
Discard output. This setting is currently ignored on GNU/Linux systems.
Non-POSIX. May be negated.
Next: Special characters, Previous: Local settings, Up: stty: Print or
change terminal characteristics   [Contents][Index]

19.2.5 Combination settings ¶
Combination settings:
‘evenp’ ¶
‘parity’
Same as parenb -parodd cs7. May be negated. If negated, same as -parenb
cs8.
‘oddp’ ¶
Same as parenb parodd cs7. May be negated. If negated, same as -parenb
cs8.
‘nl’ ¶
Same as -icrnl -onlcr. May be negated. If negated, same as icrnl -inlcr
-igncr onlcr -ocrnl -onlret.
‘ek’ ¶
Reset the erase and kill special characters to their default values.
‘sane’ ¶
Same as:

and also sets all special characters to their default values.
‘cooked’ ¶
Same as brkint ignpar istrip icrnl ixon opost isig icanon, plus sets the
eof and eol characters to their default values if they are the same as
the min and time characters. May be negated. If negated, same as raw.
‘raw’ ¶
Same as:

May be negated. If negated, same as cooked.
‘cbreak’ ¶
Same as -icanon. May be negated. If negated, same as icanon.
‘pass8’ ¶
Same as -parenb -istrip cs8. May be negated. If negated, same as parenb
istrip cs7.
‘litout’ ¶
Same as -parenb -istrip -opost cs8. May be negated. If negated, same as
parenb istrip opost cs7.
‘decctlq’ ¶
Same as -ixany. Non-POSIX. May be negated.
‘tabs’ ¶
Same as tab0. Non-POSIX. May be negated. If negated, same as tab3.
‘lcase’ ¶
‘LCASE’
Same as xcase iuclc olcuc. Non-POSIX. May be negated. (Used for
terminals with uppercase characters only.)
‘crt’ ¶
Same as echoe echoctl echoke.
‘dec’ ¶
Same as echoe echoctl echoke -ixany intr ^C erase ^? kill C-u.
Next: Special settings, Previous: Combination settings, Up: stty: Print
or change terminal characteristics   [Contents][Index]

19.2.6 Special characters ¶

The special characters’ default values vary from system to system. They
are set with the syntax ‘name value’, where the names are listed below
and the value can be given either literally, in hat notation (‘^c’), or
as an integer which may start with ‘0x’ to indicate hexadecimal, ‘0’ to
indicate octal, or any other digit to indicate decimal.
For GNU stty, giving a value of ^- or undef disables that special
character. (This is incompatible with Ultrix stty, which uses a value of
‘u’ to disable a special character. GNU stty treats a value ‘u’ like any
other, namely to set that special character to U.)
‘intr’ ¶
Send an interrupt signal.
‘quit’ ¶
Send a quit signal.
‘erase’ ¶
Erase the last character typed.
‘kill’ ¶
Erase the current line.
‘eof’ ¶
Send an end of file (terminate the input).
‘eol’ ¶
End the line.
‘eol2’ ¶
Alternate character to end the line. Non-POSIX.
‘discard’ ¶
Alternate character to toggle discarding of output. Non-POSIX.
‘swtch’ ¶
Switch to a different shell layer. Non-POSIX.
‘status’ ¶
Send an info signal. Not currently supported on GNU/Linux. Non-POSIX.
‘start’ ¶
Restart the output after stopping it.
‘stop’ ¶
Stop the output.
‘susp’ ¶
Send a terminal stop signal.
‘dsusp’ ¶
Send a terminal stop signal after flushing the input. Non-POSIX.
‘rprnt’ ¶
Redraw the current line. Non-POSIX.
‘werase’ ¶
Erase the last word typed. Non-POSIX.
‘lnext’ ¶
Enter the next character typed literally, even if it is a special
character. Non-POSIX.
Previous: Special characters, Up: stty: Print or change terminal
characteristics   [Contents][Index]

19.2.7 Special settings ¶

‘min n’ ¶
Set the minimum number of characters that will satisfy a read until the
time value has expired, when -icanon is set.
‘time n’ ¶
Set the number of tenths of a second before reads time out if the
minimum number of characters have not been read, when -icanon is set.
‘ispeed n’ ¶
Set the input speed to n.
‘ospeed n’ ¶
Set the output speed to n.
‘rows n’ ¶
Tell the tty kernel driver that the terminal has n rows.
‘cols n’ ¶
Tell the kernel that the terminal has n columns.
‘columns n’ ¶
Same as ‘cols’. Non-POSIX.
‘drain’ ¶
Apply settings after first waiting for pending output to be transmitted.
This is enabled by default for GNU stty. This is treated as an option
rather than a line setting, and will follow the option processing rules
described in the summary above. It is useful to disable this option in
cases where the system may be in a state where serial transmission is
not possible. For example, if the system has received the ‘DC3’
character with ixon (software flow control) enabled, then stty would
block without -drain being specified. May be negated. Non-POSIX.
‘size’ ¶
Print the number of rows and columns that the kernel thinks the terminal
has. (Systems that don’t support rows and columns in the kernel
typically use the environment variables LINES and COLUMNS instead;
however, GNU stty does not know anything about them.)
‘line n’ ¶
Use line discipline n. Non-POSIX.
‘speed’ ¶
Print the terminal speed.
‘n’ ¶
Set the input and output speeds to n. n can be one of: 0 50 75 110 134
134.5 150 200 300 600 1200 1800 2400 4800 9600 19200 38400 exta extb.
exta is the same as 19200; extb is the same as 38400. Many systems,
support arbitrary or higher speeds. 0 hangs up the line if -clocal is
set.
Next: tty: Print file name of terminal on standard input, Previous:
stty: Print or change terminal characteristics, Up: Working context  
[Contents][Index]

19.3 printenv: Print all or some environment variables ¶

printenv prints environment variable values. Synopsis:

If no variables are specified, printenv prints the value of every
environment variable. Otherwise, it prints the value of each variable
that is set, and nothing for those that are not set.
The program accepts the following option. Also see Common options.
‘-0’ ¶
‘–null’
Output a zero byte (ASCII NUL) at the end of each line, rather than a
newline. This option enables other programs to parse the output even
when that output would contain data with embedded newlines.
Exit status:

Previous: printenv: Print all or some environment variables, Up: Working
context   [Contents][Index]

19.4 tty: Print file name of terminal on standard input ¶

tty prints the file name of the terminal connected to its standard
input. It prints ‘not a tty’ if standard input is not a terminal.
Synopsis:

The program accepts the following option. Also see Common options.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–silent’
‘–quiet’
Print nothing; only return an exit status.
Exit status:

Next: System context, Previous: Working context, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

20 User information ¶

This section describes commands that print user-related information:
logins, groups, and so forth.
id: Print user identity
logname: Print current login name
whoami: Print effective user name
groups: Print group names a user is in
users: Print login names of users currently logged in
who: Print who is currently logged in
pinky: Print information about users
Next: logname: Print current login name, Up: User information  
[Contents][Index]

20.1 id: Print user identity ¶

id prints information about the given user, or the process running it if
no user is specified. Synopsis:

user can be either a user ID or a name, with name look-up taking
precedence unless the ID is specified with a leading ‘+’. See chown,
chgrp, chroot, id: Disambiguating user names and IDs.
By default, it prints the real user ID, real group ID, effective user ID
if different from the real user ID, effective group ID if different from
the real group ID, and supplemental group IDs. In addition, if SELinux
is enabled and the POSIXLY_CORRECT environment variable is not set, then
print ‘context=c’, where c is the security context.
Each of these numeric values is preceded by an identifying string and
followed by the corresponding user or group name in parentheses.
The options cause id to print only part of the above information. Also
see Common options.
‘-a’ ¶
Ignored; for compatibility with other versions of id.
‘-g’ ¶
‘–group’
Print only the group ID.
‘-G’ ¶
‘–groups’
Print only the group ID and the supplementary groups.
‘-n’ ¶
‘–name’
Print the user or group name instead of the ID number. Requires -u, -g,
or -G.
‘-r’ ¶
‘–real’
Print the real, instead of effective, user or group ID. Requires -u, -g,
or -G.
‘-u’ ¶
‘–user’
Print only the user ID.
‘-Z’ ¶
‘–context’
Print only the security context of the process, which is generally the
user’s security context inherited from the parent process. If neither
SELinux or SMACK is enabled then print a warning and set the exit status
to 1.
‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero’
Delimit output items with ASCII NUL characters. This option is not
permitted when using the default format. When multiple users are
specified, and the –groups option is also in effect, groups are
delimited with a single NUL character, while users are delimited with
two NUL characters.
Example:

Primary and supplementary groups for a process are normally inherited
from its parent and are usually unchanged since login. This means that
if you change the group database after logging in, id will not reflect
your changes within your existing login session. Running id with a user
argument causes the user and group database to be consulted afresh, and
so will give a different result.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: whoami: Print effective user name, Previous: id: Print user
identity, Up: User information   [Contents][Index]

20.2 logname: Print current login name ¶

logname prints the calling user’s name, as found in a system-maintained
file (often /var/run/utmp or /etc/utmp), and exits with a status of 0.
If there is no entry for the calling process, logname prints an error
message and exits with a status of 1.
The only options are –help and –version. See Common options.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: groups: Print group names a user is in, Previous: logname: Print
current login name, Up: User information   [Contents][Index]

20.3 whoami: Print effective user name ¶

whoami prints the user name associated with the current effective user
ID. It is equivalent to the command ‘id -un’.
The only options are –help and –version. See Common options.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: users: Print login names of users currently logged in, Previous:
whoami: Print effective user name, Up: User information  
[Contents][Index]

20.4 groups: Print group names a user is in ¶

groups prints the names of the primary and any supplementary groups for
each given username, or the current process if no names are given. If
more than one name is given, the name of each user is printed before the
list of that user’s groups and the user name is separated from the group
list by a colon. Synopsis:

The group lists are equivalent to the output of the command ‘id -Gn’.
The only options are –help and –version. See Common options.
Primary and supplementary groups for a process are normally inherited
from its parent and are usually unchanged since login. This means that
if you change the group database after logging in, groups will not
reflect your changes within your existing login session. Running groups
with a list of users causes the user and group database to be consulted
afresh, and so will give a different result.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: who: Print who is currently logged in, Previous: groups: Print
group names a user is in, Up: User information   [Contents][Index]

20.5 users: Print login names of users currently logged in ¶

users prints on a single line a blank-separated list of user names of
users currently logged in to the current host. Each user name
corresponds to a login session, so if a user has more than one login
session, that user’s name will appear the same number of times in the
output. Synopsis:

With no file argument, users extracts its information from a
system-maintained file (often /var/run/utmp or /etc/utmp). If a file
argument is given, users uses that file instead. A common choice is
/var/log/wtmp.
The only options are –help and –version. See Common options.
The users command is installed only on platforms with the POSIX
<utmpx.h> include file or equivalent, so portable scripts should not
rely on its existence on non-POSIX platforms.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: pinky: Print information about users, Previous: users: Print login
names of users currently logged in, Up: User information  
[Contents][Index]

20.6 who: Print who is currently logged in ¶

who prints information about users who are currently logged on.
Synopsis:

If given no non-option arguments, who prints the following information
for each user currently logged on: login name, terminal line, login
time, and remote hostname or X display.
If given one non-option argument, who uses that instead of a default
system-maintained file (often /var/run/utmp or /etc/utmp) as the name of
the file containing the record of users logged on. /var/log/wtmp is
commonly given as an argument to who to look at who has previously
logged on.
If given two non-option arguments, who prints only the entry for the
user running it (determined from its standard input), preceded by the
hostname. Traditionally, the two arguments given are ‘am i’, as in ‘who
am i’.
Timestamps are listed according to the time zone rules specified by the
TZ environment variable, or by the system default rules if TZ is not
set. See Specifying the Time Zone with TZ in The GNU C Library Reference
Manual.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-a’ ¶
‘–all’
Same as ‘-b -d –login -p -r -t -T -u’.
‘-b’ ¶
‘–boot’
Print the date and time of last system boot.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–dead’
Print information corresponding to dead processes.
‘-H’ ¶
‘–heading’
Print a line of column headings.
‘-l’ ¶
‘–login’
List only the entries that correspond to processes via which the system
is waiting for a user to login. The user name is always ‘LOGIN’.
‘–lookup’ ¶
Attempt to canonicalize hostnames found in utmp through a DNS lookup.
This is not the default because of potential delays.
‘-m’ ¶
Same as ‘who am i’.
‘-p’ ¶
‘–process’
List active processes spawned by init.
‘-q’ ¶
‘–count’
Print only the login names and the number of users logged on. Overrides
all other options.
‘-r’ ¶
‘–runlevel’
Print the current (and maybe previous) run-level of the init process.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–short’
Ignored; for compatibility with other versions of who.
‘-t’ ¶
‘–time’
Print last system clock change.
‘-u’ ¶
‘–users’
After the login time, print the number of hours and minutes that the
user has been idle. ‘.’ means the user was active in the last minute.
‘old’ means the user has been idle for more than 24 hours.
‘-w’ ¶
‘-T’
‘–mesg’
‘–message’
‘–writable’
After each login name print a character indicating the user’s message
status:

The who command is installed only on platforms with the POSIX <utmpx.h>
include file or equivalent, so portable scripts should not rely on its
existence on non-POSIX platforms.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Previous: who: Print who is currently logged in, Up: User information  
[Contents][Index]

20.7 pinky: Print information about users ¶
pinky is a lightweight implementation of the finger command. Synopsis:

The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-l’ ¶
Produce long format output.
When producing long output at least one username must be given. If
username cannot be found, the real name is printed as ‘???’ and the home
directory and shell are omitted.
‘-b’ ¶
Omit the user’s home directory and shell when printing in long format.
‘-h’ ¶
Omit the user’s project file when printing in long format.
‘-p’ ¶
Omit the user’s plan file when printing in long format.
‘-s’ ¶
Produce short format output. This is the default behavior when no
options are given.
‘-f’ ¶
Omit the column headings when printing in short format.
‘-w’ ¶
Omit the user’s full name when printing in short format.
‘-i’ ¶
Omit the user’s full name and remote host when printing in short format.
‘-q’ ¶
Omit the user’s full name, remote host, and idle time when printing in
short format.
‘–lookup’ ¶
Attempt to canonicalize hostnames found in utmp through a DNS lookup.
This is not the default because of potential delays.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: SELinux context, Previous: User information, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

21 System context ¶

This section describes commands that print or change system-wide
information.
date: Print or set system date and time
arch: Print machine hardware name
nproc: Print the number of available processors
uname: Print system information
hostname: Print or set system name
hostid: Print numeric host identifier
uptime: Print system uptime and load
Next: arch: Print machine hardware name, Up: System context  
[Contents][Index]

21.1 date: Print or set system date and time ¶

Synopses:

The date command displays the date and time. With the –set (-s) option,
or with ‘mmddhhmm[[cc]yy][.ss]’, it sets the date and time before
displaying it.
Invoking date with no operands is equivalent to invoking it with a
default format that depends on the LC_TIME locale category. In the
default C locale, this format is ‘+%a %b %e %H:%M:%S %Z %Y’, so the
output looks like ‘Thu Jul  9 17:00:00 EDT 2026’.
Normally, date uses the time zone rules indicated by the TZ environment
variable, or the system default rules if TZ is not set. See Specifying
the Time Zone with TZ in The GNU C Library Reference Manual.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Specifying the format of date output
Calendars
Setting the time
Options for date
Examples of date
Next: Calendars, Up: date: Print or set system date and time  
[Contents][Index]

21.1.1 Specifying the format of date output ¶
If given an argument that starts with a ‘+’, date prints the date and
time in the format defined by that argument, which is similar to that of
the strftime function. Except for conversion specifiers, which start
with ‘%’, characters in the format string are printed unchanged. The
conversion specifiers are described below.
Time conversion specifiers
Date conversion specifiers
Literal conversion specifiers
Padding and other flags
Next: Date conversion specifiers, Up: Specifying the format of date
output   [Contents][Index]

21.1.1.1 Time conversion specifiers ¶

date conversion specifiers related to times.
‘%H’
hour (‘00’…‘23’)
‘%I’
hour (‘01’…‘12’)
‘%k’
hour, space padded (‘ 0’…‘23’); equivalent to ‘%_H’. This is a GNU
extension.
‘%l’
hour, space padded (‘ 1’…‘12’); equivalent to ‘%_I’. This is a GNU
extension.
‘%M’
minute (‘00’…‘59’)
‘%N’
nanoseconds (‘000000000’…‘999999999’). This is a GNU extension.
‘%p’
locale’s equivalent of either ‘AM’ or ‘PM’; blank in many locales. Noon
is treated as ‘PM’ and midnight as ‘AM’.
‘%P’
like ‘%p’, except lower case. This is a GNU extension.
‘%r’
locale’s 12-hour clock time (e.g., ‘11:11:04 PM’)
‘%R’
24-hour hour and minute. Same as ‘%H:%M’.
‘%s’ ¶
seconds since the Epoch, i.e., since 1970-01-01 00:00 UTC. Leap seconds
are not counted unless leap second support is available. See
%s-examples, for examples. This is a GNU extension.
‘%S’ ¶
second (‘00’…‘60’). This may be ‘60’ if leap seconds are supported.
‘%T’
24-hour hour, minute, and second. Same as ‘%H:%M:%S’.
‘%X’
locale’s time representation (e.g., ‘23:13:48’)
‘%z’
Four-digit numeric time zone, e.g., ‘-0600’ or ‘+0530’, or ‘-0000’ if no
time zone is determinable. This value reflects the numeric time zone
appropriate for the current time, using the time zone rules specified by
the TZ environment variable. A time zone is not determinable if its
numeric offset is zero and its abbreviation begins with ‘-’. The time
(and optionally, the time zone rules) can be overridden by the –date
option.
‘%:z’
Numeric time zone with ‘:’, e.g., ‘-06:00’ or ‘+05:30’), or ‘-00:00’ if
no time zone is determinable. This is a GNU extension.
‘%::z’
Numeric time zone to the nearest second with ‘:’ (e.g., ‘-06:00:00’ or
‘+05:30:00’), or ‘-00:00:00’ if no time zone is determinable. This is a
GNU extension.
‘%:::z’
Numeric time zone with ‘:’ using the minimum necessary precision (e.g.,
‘-06’, ‘+05:30’, or ‘-04:56:02’), or ‘-00’ if no time zone is
determinable. This is a GNU extension.
‘%Z’
alphabetic time zone abbreviation (e.g., ‘EDT’), or nothing if no time
zone is determinable. See ‘%z’ for how it is determined.
Next: Literal conversion specifiers, Previous: Time conversion
specifiers, Up: Specifying the format of date output   [Contents][Index]

21.1.1.2 Date conversion specifiers ¶

date conversion specifiers related to dates.
‘%a’
locale’s abbreviated weekday name (e.g., ‘Sun’)
‘%A’
locale’s full weekday name, variable length (e.g., ‘Sunday’)
‘%b’
locale’s abbreviated month name (e.g., ‘Jan’)
‘%B’
locale’s full month name, variable length (e.g., ‘January’)
‘%c’
locale’s date and time (e.g., ‘Thu Mar  3 23:05:25 2020’)
‘%C’
century. This is like ‘%Y’, except the last two digits are omitted. For
example, it is ‘20’ if ‘%Y’ is ‘2019’, and is ‘-0’ if ‘%Y’ is ‘-001’. It
is normally at least two characters, but it may be more.
‘%d’
day of month (e.g., ‘01’)
‘%D’
date; same as ‘%m/%d/%y’. Although commonly used in the US, this format
is confusing elsewhere, and it is ambiguous for dates in different
centuries.
‘%e’
day of month, space padded; same as ‘%_d’
‘%F’
full date in ISO 8601 format; like ‘%+4Y-%m-%d’ except that any flags or
field width override the ‘+’ and (after subtracting 6) the ‘4’. This is
a good choice for a date format, as it is standard and is easy to sort
in the usual case where years are in the range 0000…9999.
‘%g’
year corresponding to the ISO week number, but without the century
(range ‘00’ through ‘99’). This has the same format and value as ‘%y’,
except that if the ISO week number (see ‘%V’) belongs to the previous or
next year, that year is used instead. This format is ambiguous for dates
in different centuries.
‘%G’
year corresponding to the ISO week number. This has the same format and
value as ‘%Y’, except that if the ISO week number (see ‘%V’) belongs to
the previous or next year, that year is used instead. It is normally
useful only if ‘%V’ is also used; for example, the format ‘%G-%m-%d’ is
probably a mistake, since it combines the ISO week number year with the
conventional month and day.
‘%h’
same as ‘%b’
‘%j’
day of year (‘001’…‘366’)
‘%m’
month (‘01’…‘12’)
‘%q’
quarter of year (‘1’…‘4’)
‘%u’
day of week (‘1’…‘7’) with ‘1’ corresponding to Monday
‘%U’
week number of year, with Sunday as the first day of the week
(‘00’…‘53’). Days in a new year preceding the first Sunday are in week
zero.
‘%V’
ISO week number, that is, the week number of year, with Monday as the
first day of the week (‘01’…‘53’). If the week containing January 1 has
four or more days in the new year, then it is considered week 1;
otherwise, it is week 53 of the previous year, and the next week is
week 1. (See the ISO 8601 standard.)
‘%w’
day of week (‘0’…‘6’) with 0 corresponding to Sunday
‘%W’
week number of year, with Monday as first day of week (‘00’…‘53’). Days
in a new year preceding the first Monday are in week zero.
‘%x’
locale’s date representation (e.g., ‘12/31/99’). This format can be
ambiguous for dates in different centuries.
‘%y’
last two digits of year (‘00’…‘99’). This format is ambiguous for dates
in different centuries.
‘%Y’
year. This is normally at least four characters, but it may be more.
Year ‘0000’ precedes year ‘0001’, and year ‘-001’ precedes year ‘0000’.
Next: Padding and other flags, Previous: Date conversion specifiers, Up:
Specifying the format of date output   [Contents][Index]

21.1.1.3 Literal conversion specifiers ¶

date conversion specifiers that produce literal strings.
‘%%’
a literal %
‘%n’
a newline
‘%t’
a horizontal tab
Previous: Literal conversion specifiers, Up: Specifying the format of
date output   [Contents][Index]

21.1.1.4 Padding and other flags ¶

Unless otherwise specified, date normally pads numeric fields with
zeros, so that, for example, numeric months are always output as two
digits. Most numeric fields are padded on the left. However, nanoseconds
are padded on the right since they are commonly used after decimal
points in formats like ‘%s.%-N’. Also, seconds since the Epoch are not
padded since there is no natural width for them.
The following optional flags can appear after the ‘%’:
‘-’
(hyphen) Do not pad the field; useful if the output is intended for
human consumption. This is a GNU extension. As a special case, ‘%-N’
outputs only enough trailing digits to not lose information, assuming
that the timestamp’s resolution is the same as the current hardware
clock. For example, if the hardware clock resolution is 1 microsecond,
‘%s.%-N’ outputs something like ‘1640890100.395710’.
‘_’
(underscore) Pad with spaces; useful if you need a fixed number of
characters in the output, but zeros are too distracting. This is a GNU
extension.
‘0’
(zero) Pad with zeros even if the conversion specifier would normally
pad with spaces.
‘+’
Pad with zeros, like ‘0’. In addition, precede any year number with ‘+’
if it exceeds 9999 or if its field width exceeds 4; similarly, precede
any century number with ‘+’ if it exceeds 99 or if its field width
exceeds 2. This supports ISO 8601 formats for dates far in the future;
for example, the command date –date=12019-02-25 +%+13F outputs the
string ‘+012019-02-25’.
‘^’
Use upper case characters if possible. This is a GNU extension.
‘#’
Use opposite case characters if possible. A field that is normally upper
case becomes lower case, and vice versa. This is a GNU extension.
Here are some examples of padding:

You can optionally specify the field width (after any flag, if present)
as a decimal number. If the natural size of the output of the field has
less than the specified number of characters, the result is normally
written right adjusted and padded to the given size. For example, ‘%9B’
prints the right adjusted month name in a field of width 9. Nanoseconds
are left adjusted, and are truncated or padded to the field width.
An optional modifier can follow the optional flag and width
specification. The modifiers are:
‘E’
Use the locale’s alternate representation for date and time. This
modifier applies to the ‘%c’, ‘%C’, ‘%x’, ‘%X’, ‘%y’ and ‘%Y’ conversion
specifiers. In a Japanese locale, for example, ‘%Ex’ might yield a date
format based on the Japanese Emperors’ reigns.
‘O’
Use the locale’s alternate numeric symbols for numbers. This modifier
applies only to numeric conversion specifiers.
If the format supports the modifier but no alternate representation is
available, it is ignored.
POSIX specifies the behavior of flags and field widths only for ‘%C’,
‘%F’, ‘%G’, and ‘%Y’ (all without modifiers), and requires a flag to be
present if and only if a field width is also present. Other combinations
of flags, field widths and modifiers are GNU extensions.
Next: Setting the time, Previous: Specifying the format of date output,
Up: date: Print or set system date and time   [Contents][Index]

21.1.2 Calendars ¶
A calendar is a system that groups some sequences of days into “months”,
and some sequences of months into “years”. In most countries, the
calendar in use is the Gregorian calendar, with months ranging from
January (the first month) to December (the 12th month).
In some specific countries, other calendars are in effect, and GNU date
supports them in its output. The calendar depends on the LC_TIME
category of the current locale:
In the locale of Thailand (th_TH.UTF-8), the Thai solar calendar is
used.
In the locale of Iran (fa_IR), the Persian solar Hijri calendar is used.
In the locale of Ethiopia (am_ET), the Ethiopian / Ge’ez calendar is
used.
The dates in these calendars look different. For example, the day the
GNU project was announced:

In these locales, when a non-Gregorian calendar is in use, a few date
conversion specifiers should not be used, because they don’t apply in
the expected way:
‘%C’ for the century,
‘%y’ for a two-digit year,
‘%G’ and ‘%g’ for a week-based year,
‘%U’, ‘%W’, and ‘%V’ for the week in the year,
‘%j’ for the day in the year,
and ‘%D’ for the date in U.S. formatting convention.
If you are using one of these locales and want to see Gregorian dates
nevertheless, you can achieve that by
making sure that you use the LANG environment variable, not the LC_ALL
environment variable, for specifying your general locale, and
setting the LC_TIME environment variable to a locale that uses the
Gregorian calendar.
For example:

For more information on how to set your locale, see the GNU gettext
manual at
https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/Users.html.
Next: Options for date, Previous: Calendars, Up: date: Print or set
system date and time   [Contents][Index]

21.1.3 Setting the time ¶

You must have appropriate privileges to set the system clock. For
changes to persist across a reboot, the hardware clock may need to be
updated from the system clock, which might not happen automatically on
your system.
To set the clock, you can use the –set (-s) option (see Options for
date) or a operand of the form ‘mmddhhmm[[cc]yy][.ss]’ where each
two-letter component stands for two digits with the following meanings:
mm
month (this is the first mm)
dd
day within month
hh
hour
mm
minute (this is the second mm)
cc
first two digits of year (optional)
yy
last two digits of year (optional)
ss
second (optional; this is a GNU extension)
The –date and –set options may not be used with an argument in the above
format. The –universal option may be used with such an argument to
indicate that the specified date and time are relative to Universal Time
rather than to the local time zone.
Next: Examples of date, Previous: Setting the time, Up: date: Print or
set system date and time   [Contents][Index]

21.1.4 Options for date ¶

The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
Except for -u, these options are all GNU extensions to POSIX.
All options that specify the date to display are mutually exclusive.
I.e.: –date, –file, –reference, –resolution.
‘-d datestr’ ¶
‘–date=datestr’
Display the date and time specified in datestr instead of the current
date and time. datestr can be in almost any common format. It can
contain month names, time zones, ‘am’ and ‘pm’, ‘yesterday’, etc. For
example, –date="2020-07-21 14:19:13.489392193 +0530" specifies the
instant of time that is 489,392,193 nanoseconds after July 21, 2020 at
2:19:13 PM in a time zone that is 5 hours and 30 minutes east of UTC.
The datestr must be in locale independent format. E.g., the ‘LC_TIME=C’
below is needed to print the correct date in many locales:

See Date input formats.
‘–debug’ ¶
Annotate the parsed date, display the effective time zone, and warn
about potential misuse.
‘-f datefile’ ¶
‘–file=datefile’
Parse each line in datefile as with -d and display the resulting date
and time. If datefile is ‘-’, use standard input. This is useful when
you have many dates to process, because the system overhead of starting
up the date executable many times can be considerable.
‘-I[timespec]’ ¶
‘–iso-8601[=timespec]’
Display the date using an ISO 8601 format, ‘%Y-%m-%d’.
The argument timespec specifies the number of additional terms of the
time to include. It can be one of the following:
‘auto’
Print just the date. This is the default if timespec is omitted. This is
like the format %Y-%m-%d.
‘hours’
Also print hours and time zone. This is like the format %Y-%m-%dT%H%:z.
‘minutes’
Also print minutes. This is like the format %Y-%m-%dT%H:%M%:z.
‘seconds’
Also print seconds. This is like the format %Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S%:z.
‘ns’
Also print nanoseconds. This is like the format %Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S,%N%:z.
GNU date uses a ‘,’ decimal point as preferred by ISO 8601. You can
override it by expressing the full format with a ‘.’ decimal point
explicitly, like LC_ALL=C date +‘%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S.%N%:z’.
This format is always suitable as input for the –date (-d) and –file
(-f) options, regardless of the current locale.
‘-r file’ ¶
‘–reference=file’
Display the date and time of the last modification of file, instead of
the current date and time.
‘–resolution’ ¶
Display the timestamp resolution instead of the time. Current clock
timestamps that are output by date are integer multiples of the
timestamp resolution. With this option, the format defaults to ‘%s.%N’.
For example, if the clock resolution is 1 millisecond, the output is:

‘-R’ ¶
‘–rfc-email’
Display the date and time using the format ‘%a, %d %b %Y %H:%M:%S %z’,
evaluated in the C locale so abbreviations are always in English. For
example:

This format conforms to Internet RFCs 5322, 2822 and 822, the current
and previous standards for Internet email. For compatibility with older
versions of date, –rfc-2822 and –rfc-822 are aliases for –rfc-email.
‘–rfc-3339=timespec’ ¶
Display the date using a format specified by Internet RFC 3339. This is
like –iso-8601, except that a space rather than a ‘T’ separates dates
from times, and a period rather than a comma separates seconds from
subseconds. This format is always suitable as input for the –date (-d)
and –file (-f) options, regardless of the current locale.
The argument timespec specifies how much of the time to include. It can
be one of the following:
‘date’
Print just the full-date, e.g., ‘2020-07-21’. This is like the format
‘%Y-%m-%d’.
‘seconds’
Print the full-date and full-time separated by a space, e.g.,
‘2020-07-21 04:30:37+05:30’. The output ends with a numeric time-offset;
here the ‘+05:30’ means that local time is five hours and thirty minutes
east of UTC. This is like the format ‘%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S%:z’.
‘ns’
Like ‘seconds’, but also print nanoseconds, e.g., ‘2020-07-21
04:30:37.998458565+05:30’. This is like the format ‘%Y-%m-%d
%H:%M:%S.%N%:z’.
‘-s datestr’ ¶
‘–set=datestr’
Set the date and time to datestr. See -d above. See also Setting the
time.
‘-u’ ¶
‘–utc’
‘–universal’
Use Universal Time by operating as if the TZ environment variable were
set to the string ‘UTC0’. UTC stands for Coordinated Universal Time,
established in 1960. Universal Time is often called “Greenwich Mean
Time” (GMT) for historical reasons. Typically, systems ignore leap
seconds and thus implement an approximation to UTC rather than true UTC.
Previous: Options for date, Up: date: Print or set system date and time
  [Contents][Index]

21.1.5 Examples of date ¶

Here are a few examples. Also see the documentation for the -d option in
the previous section.
To print the date of the day before yesterday:

To print the date of the day three months and one day hence:

To print the day of year of Christmas in the current year:

To print the current full month name and the day of the month:

But this may not be what you want because for the first nine days of the
month, the ‘%d’ expands to a zero-padded two-digit field, for example
‘date -d 1may ‘+%B %d’’ will print ‘May 01’.
To print a date without the leading zero for one-digit days of the
month, you can use the (GNU extension) ‘-’ flag to suppress the padding
altogether:

To print the current date and time in the format required by many
non-GNU versions of date when setting the system clock:

To set the system clock forward by two minutes:

To print the date in Internet RFC 5322 format, use ‘date –rfc-email’.
Here is some example output:

To convert a date string to the number of seconds since the Epoch (which
is 1970-01-01 00:00 UTC), use the –date option with the ‘%s’ format.
That can be useful in sorting and/or graphing and/or comparing data by
date. The following command outputs the number of the seconds since the
Epoch for the time two minutes after the Epoch:

To convert a date string from one time zone from to another to, specify
‘TZ="from"’ in the environment and ‘TZ="to"’ in the –date option. See
Specifying time zone rules. For example:

If you do not specify time zone information in the date string, date
uses your computer’s idea of the time zone when interpreting the string.
For example, if your computer’s time zone is that of Cambridge,
Massachusetts, which was then 5 hours (i.e., 18,000 seconds) behind UTC:

If you’re sorting or graphing dated data, your raw date values may be
represented as seconds since the Epoch. But few people can look at the
date ‘1577836800’ and casually note “Oh, that’s the first second of the
year 2020 in Greenwich, England.”

An alternative is to use the –utc (-u) option. Then you may omit ‘UTC’
from the date string. Although this produces the same result for ‘%s’
and many other format sequences, with a time zone offset different from
zero, it would give a different result for zone-dependent formats like
‘%z’.

To convert such an unwieldy number of seconds back to a more readable
form, use a command like this:

Often it is better to output UTC-relative date and time:

Typically the seconds count omits leap seconds, but some systems are
exceptions. Because leap seconds are not predictable, the mapping
between the seconds count and a future timestamp is not reliable on the
atypical systems that include leap seconds in their counts.

Here is how the two kinds of systems handle the leap second at the end
of the year 2016:

Next: nproc: Print the number of available processors, Previous: date:
Print or set system date and time, Up: System context  
[Contents][Index]

21.2 arch: Print machine hardware name ¶

arch prints the machine hardware name, and is equivalent to ‘uname -m’.
Synopsis:

The program accepts the Common options only.
arch is not installed by default, so portable scripts should not rely on
its existence.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: uname: Print system information, Previous: arch: Print machine
hardware name, Up: System context   [Contents][Index]

21.3 nproc: Print the number of available processors ¶

Print the number of processing units available to the current process,
which may be less than the number of online processors. If this
information is not accessible, then print the number of processors
installed. If the OMP_NUM_THREADS or OMP_THREAD_LIMIT environment
variables are set, then they will determine the minimum and maximum
returned value respectively. Linux cgroup version 2 CPU quotas may also
limit the maximum returned value. The result is guaranteed to be greater
than zero. Synopsis:

The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘–all’ ¶
Print the number of installed processors on the system, which may be
greater than the number online or available to the current process. The
OMP_NUM_THREADS or OMP_THREAD_LIMIT environment variables, or cgroup CPU
quotas, are not honored in this case.
‘–ignore=number’ ¶
If possible, exclude this number of processing units.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: hostname: Print or set system name, Previous: nproc: Print the
number of available processors, Up: System context   [Contents][Index]

21.4 uname: Print system information ¶

uname prints information about the machine and operating system it is
run on. If no options are given, uname acts as if the -s option were
given. Synopsis:

If multiple options or -a are given, the selected information is printed
in this order:

The information may contain internal spaces, so such output cannot be
parsed reliably. In the following example, kernel-version is ‘#1 SMP Fri
Jul 17 17:18:38 UTC 2020’:

The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-a’ ¶
‘–all’
Print all of the below information, except omit the processor type and
the hardware platform name if they are unknown.
‘-i’ ¶
‘–hardware-platform’
Print the hardware platform name (sometimes called the hardware
implementation). Print ‘unknown’ if this information is not available.
This is non-portable, even across GNU/Linux distributions.
‘-m’ ¶
‘–machine’
Print the machine hardware name (sometimes called the hardware class or
hardware type).
‘-n’ ¶
‘–nodename’
Print the network node hostname.
‘-p’ ¶
‘–processor’
Print the processor type (sometimes called the instruction set
architecture or ISA). Print ‘unknown’ if this information is not
available. This is non-portable, even across GNU/Linux distributions.
‘-o’ ¶
‘–operating-system’
Print the name of the operating system.
‘-r’ ¶
‘–kernel-release’
Print the kernel release.
‘-s’ ¶
‘–kernel-name’
Print the kernel name. POSIX 1003.1-2001 (see Standards conformance)
calls this “the implementation of the operating system”, because the
POSIX specification itself has no notion of “kernel”. The kernel name
might be the same as the operating system name printed by the -o or
–operating-system option, but it might differ. Some operating systems
(e.g., FreeBSD, HP-UX) have the same name as their underlying kernels;
others (e.g., GNU/Linux, Solaris) do not.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–kernel-version’
Print the kernel version.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: hostid: Print numeric host identifier, Previous: uname: Print
system information, Up: System context   [Contents][Index]

21.5 hostname: Print or set system name ¶

With no arguments, hostname prints the name of the current host system.
With one argument, it sets the current host name to the specified
string. You must have appropriate privileges to set the host name.
Synopsis:

The only options are –help and –version. See Common options.
hostname is not installed by default, and other packages also supply a
hostname command, so portable scripts should not rely on its existence
or on the exact behavior documented above.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: uptime: Print system uptime and load, Previous: hostname: Print or
set system name, Up: System context   [Contents][Index]

21.6 hostid: Print numeric host identifier ¶

hostid prints the numeric identifier of the current host in hexadecimal.
This command accepts no arguments. The only options are –help and
–version. See Common options.
For example, here’s what it prints on one system I use:

On that system, the 32-bit quantity happens to be closely related to the
system’s Internet address, but that isn’t always the case.
hostid is installed only on systems that have the gethostid function, so
portable scripts should not rely on its existence.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Previous: hostid: Print numeric host identifier, Up: System context  
[Contents][Index]

21.7 uptime: Print system uptime and load ¶

uptime prints the current time, the system’s uptime, the number of
logged-in users and the current load average.
If an argument is specified, it is used as the file to be read to
discover how many users are logged in. If no argument is specified, a
system default is used (uptime –help indicates the default setting).
The only options are –help and –version. See Common options.
For example, here’s what it prints right now on one system I use:

The precise method of calculation of load average varies somewhat
between systems. Some systems calculate it as the average number of
runnable processes over the last 1, 5 and 15 minutes, but some systems
also include processes in the uninterruptible sleep state (that is,
those processes which are waiting for device I/O). The Linux kernel
includes uninterruptible processes.
uptime is installed only on platforms with infrastructure for obtaining
the boot time, and other packages also supply an uptime command, so
portable scripts should not rely on its existence or on the exact
behavior documented above.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: Modified command invocation, Previous: System context, Up: GNU
Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

22 SELinux context ¶

This section describes commands for operations with SELinux contexts.
chcon: Change SELinux context of file
runcon: Run a command in specified SELinux context
Next: runcon: Run a command in specified SELinux context, Up: SELinux
context   [Contents][Index]

22.1 chcon: Change SELinux context of file ¶

chcon changes the SELinux security context of the selected files.
Synopses:

Change the SELinux security context of each file to context. With
–reference, change the security context of each file to that of rfile.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘–dereference’ ¶
Do not affect symbolic links but what they refer to; this is the
default.
‘-h’ ¶
‘–no-dereference’
Affect the symbolic links themselves instead of any referenced file.
‘–reference=rfile’ ¶
Use rfile’s security context rather than specifying a context value.
‘-R’ ¶
‘–recursive’
Operate on files and directories recursively.
‘–preserve-root’ ¶
Refuse to operate recursively on the root directory, /, when used
together with the –recursive option. See Treating / specially.
‘–no-preserve-root’ ¶
Do not treat the root directory, /, specially when operating
recursively; this is the default. See Treating / specially.
‘-H’ ¶
If –recursive (-R) is specified and a command line argument is a
symbolic link to a directory, traverse it. See Traversing symlinks.
‘-L’ ¶
In a recursive traversal, traverse every symbolic link to a directory
that is encountered. See Traversing symlinks.
‘-P’ ¶
Do not traverse any symbolic links. See Traversing symlinks.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Output a diagnostic for every file processed.
‘-u user’ ¶
‘–user=user’
Set user user in the target security context.
‘-r role’ ¶
‘–role=role’
Set role role in the target security context.
‘-t type’ ¶
‘–type=type’
Set type type in the target security context.
‘-l range’ ¶
‘–range=range’
Set range range in the target security context.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Previous: chcon: Change SELinux context of file, Up: SELinux context  
[Contents][Index]

22.2 runcon: Run a command in specified SELinux context ¶

runcon runs file in specified SELinux security context.
Synopses:

Run command with completely-specified context, or with current or
transitioned security context modified by one or more of level, role,
type and user.
If none of -c, -t, -u, -r, or -l is specified, the first argument is
used as the complete context. Any additional arguments after command are
interpreted as arguments to the command.
With neither context nor command, print the current security context.
The setpriv command can be used to set the NO_NEW_PRIVS bit using
setpriv –no-new-privs runcon …, thus disallowing usage of a security
context with more privileges than the process would normally have.
runcon accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-c’ ¶
‘–compute’
Compute process transition context before modifying.
‘-u user’ ¶
‘–user=user’
Set user user in the target security context.
‘-r role’ ¶
‘–role=role’
Set role role in the target security context.
‘-t type’ ¶
‘–type=type’
Set type type in the target security context.
‘-l range’ ¶
‘–range=range’
Set range range in the target security context.
Exit status:

Next: Process control, Previous: SELinux context, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

23 Modified command invocation ¶

This section describes commands that run other commands in some context
different than the current one: a modified environment, as a different
user, etc.
chroot: Run a command with a different root directory
env: Run a command in a modified environment
nice: Run a command with modified niceness
nohup: Run a command immune to hangups
stdbuf: Run a command with modified I/O stream buffering
timeout: Run a command with a time limit
Next: env: Run a command in a modified environment, Up: Modified command
invocation   [Contents][Index]

23.1 chroot: Run a command with a different root directory ¶

chroot runs a command with a specified root directory. On many systems,
only the super-user can do this.4. Synopses:

Ordinarily, file names are looked up starting at the root of the
directory structure, i.e., /. chroot changes the root to the directory
newroot (which must exist), then changes the working directory to /, and
finally runs command with optional args. If command is not specified,
the default is the value of the SHELL environment variable or /bin/sh if
not set, invoked with the -i option. command must not be a special
built-in utility (see Special built-in utilities).
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
Options must precede operands.
‘–groups=groups’ ¶
Use this option to override the supplementary groups to be used by the
new process. The items in the list (names or numeric IDs) must be
separated by commas. Use ‘–groups=’’’ to disable the supplementary group
look-up implicit in the –userspec option.
‘–userspec=user[:group]’ ¶
By default, command is run with the same credentials as the invoking
process. Use this option to run it as a different user and/or with a
different primary group. If a user is specified then the supplementary
groups are set according to the system defined list for that user,
unless overridden with the –groups option.
‘–skip-chdir’ ¶
Use this option to not change the working directory to / after changing
the root directory to newroot, i.e., inside the chroot. This option is
only permitted when newroot is the old / directory, and therefore is
mostly useful together with the –groups and –userspec options to retain
the previous working directory.
The user and group name look-up performed by the –userspec and –groups
options, is done both outside and inside the chroot, with successful
look-ups inside the chroot taking precedence. If the specified user or
group items are intended to represent a numeric ID, then a name to ID
resolving step is avoided by specifying a leading ‘+’. See chown, chgrp,
chroot, id: Disambiguating user names and IDs.
Here are a few tips to help avoid common problems in using chroot. To
start with a simple example, make command refer to a statically linked
binary. If you were to use a dynamically linked executable, then you’d
have to arrange to have the shared libraries in the right place under
your new root directory.
For example, if you create a statically linked ls executable, and put it
in /tmp/empty, you can run this command as root:

Then you’ll see output like this:

If you want to use a dynamically linked executable, say bash, then first
run ‘ldd bash’ to see what shared objects it needs. Then, in addition to
copying the actual binary, also copy the listed files to the required
positions under your intended new root directory. Finally, if the
executable requires any other files (e.g., data, state, device files),
copy them into place, too.
chroot is installed only on systems that have the chroot function, so
portable scripts should not rely on its existence.
Exit status:

Next: nice: Run a command with modified niceness, Previous: chroot: Run
a command with a different root directory, Up: Modified command
invocation   [Contents][Index]

23.2 env: Run a command in a modified environment ¶

env runs a command with a modified environment. Synopses:

env is commonly used on first line of scripts (shebang line):

Operands of the form ‘variable=value’ set the environment variable
variable to value value. value may be empty (‘variable=’). Setting a
variable to an empty value is different from unsetting it. These
operands are evaluated left-to-right, so if two operands mention the
same variable the earlier is ignored.
Environment variable names can be empty, and can contain any characters
other than ‘=’ and ASCII NUL. However, it is wise to limit yourself to
names that consist solely of underscores, digits, and ASCII letters, and
that begin with a non-digit, as applications like the shell do not work
well with other names.
The first operand that does not contain the character ‘=’ specifies the
program to invoke; it is searched for according to the PATH environment
variable. Any remaining arguments are passed as arguments to that
program. The program should not be a special built-in utility (see
Special built-in utilities).
Modifications to PATH take effect prior to searching for command. Use
caution when reducing PATH; behavior is not portable when PATH is
undefined or omits key directories such as /bin.
In the rare case that a utility contains a ‘=’ in the name, the only way
to disambiguate it from a variable assignment is to use an intermediate
command for command, and pass the problematic program name via args. For
example, if ./prog= is an executable in the current PATH:

If no command name is specified following the environment
specifications, the resulting environment is printed. This is like
specifying the printenv program.
For some examples, suppose the environment passed to env contains
‘LOGNAME=rms’, ‘EDITOR=emacs’, and ‘PATH=.:/gnubin:/hacks’:
Output the current environment.

Run foo with a reduced environment, preserving only the original PATH to
avoid problems in locating foo.

Run foo with the environment containing ‘LOGNAME=rms’, ‘EDITOR=emacs’,
and ‘PATH=.:/gnubin:/hacks’, and guarantees that foo was found in the
file system rather than as a shell built-in.

Run nemacs with the environment containing ‘LOGNAME=foo’,
‘EDITOR=emacs’, ‘PATH=.:/gnubin:/hacks’, and ‘DISPLAY=gnu:0’.

Attempt to run the program /energy/– (as that is the only possible path
search result); if the command exists, the environment will contain
‘LOGNAME=rms’ and ‘PATH=/energy’, and the arguments will be ‘e=mc2’,
‘bar’, and ‘baz’.

General options
-S/–split-string usage in scripts
-S/–split-string syntax
23.2.1 General options ¶
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
Options must precede operands.
‘-0’ ¶
‘–null’
Output a zero byte (ASCII NUL) at the end of each line, rather than a
newline. This option enables other programs to parse the output even
when that output would contain data with embedded newlines.
‘-a arg’ ¶
‘–argv0=arg’
Override the zeroth argument passed to the command being executed.
Without this option a default value of command is used.
‘-u name’ ¶
‘–unset=name’
Remove variable name from the environment, if it was in the environment.
‘-’ ¶
‘-i’
‘–ignore-environment’
Start with an empty environment, ignoring the inherited environment.
‘-C dir’ ¶
‘–chdir=dir’
Change the working directory to dir before invoking command. This
differs from the shell built-in cd in that it starts command as a
subprocess rather than altering the shell’s own working directory; this
allows it to be chained with other commands that run commands in a
different context. For example:

‘–default-signal[=sig]’ ¶
Unblock and reset signal sig to its default signal handler. Without sig
all known signals are unblocked and reset to their defaults. Multiple
signals can be comma-separated. An empty sig argument is a no-op. The
following command runs seq with SIGINT and SIGPIPE set to their default
(which is to terminate the program):

In the following example, we see how this is not possible to do with
traditional shells. Here the first trap command sets SIGPIPE to ignore.
The second trap command ostensibly sets it back to its default, but
POSIX mandates that the shell must not change inherited state of the
signal – so it is a no-op.

Using –default-signal=PIPE we can ensure the signal handling is set to
its default behavior:

‘–ignore-signal[=sig]’ ¶
Ignore signal sig when running a program. Without sig all known signals
are set to ignore. Multiple signals can be comma-separated. An empty sig
argument is a no-op. The following command runs seq with SIGINT set to
be ignored – pressing Ctrl-C will not terminate it:

‘SIGCHLD’ is special, in that –ignore-signal=CHLD might have no effect
(POSIX says it’s unspecified).
Most operating systems do not allow ignoring ‘SIGKILL’, ‘SIGSTOP’ (and
possibly other signals). Attempting to ignore these signals will fail.
Multiple (and contradictory) –default-signal=SIG and –ignore-signal=SIG
options are processed left-to-right, with the latter taking precedence.
In the following example, ‘SIGPIPE’ is set to default while ‘SIGINT’ is
ignored:

‘–block-signal[=sig]’ ¶
Block signal(s) sig from being delivered. Without sig all known signals
are set to blocked. Multiple signals can be comma-separated. An empty
sig argument is a no-op.
‘–list-signal-handling’ ¶
List blocked or ignored signals to standard error, before executing a
command.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–debug’
Show verbose information for each processing step.

When combined with -S it is recommended to list -v first, e.g. env
-vS’string’.
‘-S string’ ¶
‘–split-string=string’
process and split string into separate arguments used to pass multiple
arguments on shebang lines. env supports FreeBSD’s syntax of several
escape sequences and environment variable expansions. See below for
details and examples.
Exit status:

23.2.2 -S/–split-string usage in scripts ¶
The -S/–split-string option enables use of multiple arguments on the
first line of scripts (the shebang line, ‘#!’).
When a script’s interpreter is in a known location, scripts typically
contain the absolute file name in their first line:
Shell script:

Perl script:

Python script:

When a script’s interpreter is in a non-standard location in the PATH
environment variable, it is recommended to use env on the first line of
the script to find the executable and run it:
Shell script:

Perl script:

Python script:

Most operating systems (e.g. GNU/Linux, BSDs) treat all text after the
first space as a single argument. When using env in a script it is thus
not possible to specify multiple arguments.
In the following example:

The operating system treats ‘perl -T -w’ as one argument (the program’s
name), and executing the script fails with:

The -S option instructs env to split the single string into multiple
arguments. The following example works as expected:

And is equivalent to running perl -T -w hello.pl on the command line
prompt.
Testing and troubleshooting
Testing and troubleshooting ¶
To test env -S on the command line, use single quotes for the -S string
to emulate a single parameter. Single quotes are not needed when using
env -S in a shebang line on the first line of a script (the operating
system already treats it as one argument).
The following command is equivalent to the hello.pl script above:

To troubleshoot -S usage add the -v as the first argument (before -S).
Using -vS on a shebang line in a script:

Using -vS on the command line prompt (adding single quotes):

23.2.3 -S/–split-string syntax ¶
Splitting arguments by whitespace
Escape sequences
Comments
Environment variable expansion
Splitting arguments by whitespace ¶
Running env -Sstring splits the string into arguments based on unquoted
spaces or tab characters. (Newlines, carriage returns, vertical tabs and
form feeds are treated like spaces and tabs.)
In the following contrived example the awk variable ‘OFS’ will be
<space>xyz<space> as these spaces are inside double quotes. The other
space characters are used as argument separators:

When using -S on the command line prompt, remember to add single quotes
around the entire string:

Escape sequences ¶
env supports several escape sequences. These sequences are processed
when unquoted or inside double quotes (unless otherwise noted). Single
quotes disable escape sequences except ‘'’ and ‘\’.
/code>
Ignore the remaining characters in the string. Cannot be used inside
double quotes.
/code>
form-feed character (ASCII 0x0C)
new-line character (ASCII 0x0A)
/code>
carriage-return character (ASCII 0x0D)
/code>
tab character (ASCII 0x09)
/code>
vertical tab character (ASCII 0x0B)
#
A hash ‘#’ character. Used when a ‘#’ character is needed as the first
character of an argument (see ’comments’ section below).
$
A dollar-sign character
‘$</samp>&rsquo;. Unescaped &lsquo;<samp class="samp">$’ characters are
used to expand environment variables (see ’variables’ section below).
_
Inside double-quotes, replaced with a single space character. Outside
quotes, treated as an argument separator. ‘_’ can be used to avoid space
characters in a shebang line (see examples below).
&quot;
A double-quote character.
'
A single-quote character. This escape sequence works inside
single-quoted strings.
\
A backslash character. This escape sequence works inside single-quoted
strings.
The following awk script will use tab character as input and output
field separator (instead of spaces and tabs):

Comments ¶
The escape sequence ‘/samp>’ (used outside single/double quotes) causes
env to ignore the rest of the string.
The ‘#’ character causes env to ignore the rest of the string when it
appears as the first character of an argument. Use ‘#’ to reverse this
behavior.

The above examples use single quotes as they are executed on the
command-line.

Environment variable expansion ¶
The pattern ‘${VARNAME}</samp>&rsquo; is used to substitute a value from
the environment variable. The pattern must include the curly braces
(&lsquo;<samp class="samp">{</samp>&rsquo;,&lsquo;<samp class="samp">}</samp>&rsquo;). Without them <code class="command">env</code> will reject the string.
Special shell variables (such as &lsquo;<samp class="samp">$@’,
‘$*</samp>&rsquo;, &lsquo;<samp class="samp">$$</samp>&rsquo;) are
not supported.
</p>
<p>If the environment variable is empty or not set, the pattern will be replaced
by an empty string. The value of &lsquo;<samp class="samp">${VARNAME}’
will be that of the executed env, before any modifications using
-i/–ignore-environment/-u/–unset or setting new values using
‘VAR=VALUE’.
The following python script prepends /opt/custom/modules to the python
module search path environment variable (‘PYTHONPATH’):

The expansion of
‘${PYTHONPATH}</samp>&rsquo; is performed by <code class="command">env</code>,
not by a shell. If the curly braces are omitted, <code class="command">env</code> will fail:
</p>
<div class="example">
<pre class="example-preformatted">$ cat custom.py #!/usr/bin/env -S
PYTHONPATH=/opt/custom/modules/:$PYTHONPATH python print "hello" …

$ chmod a+x custom.py $ custom.py /usr/bin/env: only ${VARNAME}
expansion is supported, error at: $PYTHONPATH python
Environment variable expansion happens before clearing the environment
(with -i) or unsetting specific variables (with -u):

Use -v to diagnose the operations step-by-step:

Next: nohup: Run a command immune to hangups, Previous: env: Run a
command in a modified environment, Up: Modified command invocation  
[Contents][Index]

23.3 nice: Run a command with modified niceness ¶

nice prints a process’s niceness, or runs a command with modified
niceness. niceness affects how favorably the process is scheduled in the
system. Synopsis:

If no arguments are given, nice prints the current niceness. Otherwise,
nice runs the given command with its niceness adjusted. By default, its
niceness is incremented by 10.
Niceness values range at least from −20 (process has high priority and
gets more resources, thus slowing down other processes) through 19
(process has lower priority and runs slowly itself, but has less impact
on the speed of other running processes). Some systems may have a wider
range of niceness values; conversely, other systems may enforce more
restrictive limits. An attempt to set the niceness outside the supported
range is treated as an attempt to use the minimum or maximum supported
value.
A niceness should not be confused with a scheduling priority, which lets
applications determine the order in which threads are scheduled to run.
Unlike a priority, a niceness is merely advice to the scheduler, which
the scheduler is free to ignore. Also, as a point of terminology, POSIX
defines the behavior of nice in terms of a nice value, which is the
non-negative difference between a niceness and the minimum niceness.
Though nice conforms to POSIX, its documentation and diagnostics use the
term “niceness” for compatibility with historical practice.
command must not be a special built-in utility (see Special built-in
utilities).
Due to shell aliases and built-in nice functions, using an unadorned
nice interactively or in a script may get you different functionality
than that described here. Invoke it via env (i.e., env nice …) to avoid
interference from the shell.
To change the niceness of an existing process, one needs to use the
renice command.
The program accepts the following option. Also see Common options.
Options must precede operands.
‘-n adjustment’ ¶
‘–adjustment=adjustment’
Add adjustment instead of 10 to the command’s niceness. If adjustment is
negative and you lack appropriate privileges, nice issues a warning but
otherwise acts as if you specified a zero adjustment.
For compatibility nice also supports an obsolete option syntax
-adjustment. New scripts should use -n adjustment instead.
nice is installed only on systems that have the POSIX setpriority
function, so portable scripts should not rely on its existence on
non-POSIX platforms.
Exit status:

It is sometimes useful to run a non-interactive program with reduced
niceness.

Since nice prints the current niceness, you can invoke it through itself
to demonstrate how it works.
The default behavior is to increase the niceness by ‘10’:

The adjustment is relative to the current niceness. In the next example,
the first nice invocation runs the second one with niceness 10, and it
in turn runs the final one with a niceness that is 3 more:

Specifying a niceness larger than the supported range is the same as
specifying the maximum supported value:

Only a privileged user may run a process with lower niceness:

Next: stdbuf: Run a command with modified I/O stream buffering,
Previous: nice: Run a command with modified niceness, Up: Modified
command invocation   [Contents][Index]

23.4 nohup: Run a command immune to hangups ¶

nohup runs the given command with hangup signals ignored, so that the
command can continue running in the background after you log out.
Synopsis:

If standard input is a terminal, redirect it so that terminal sessions
do not mistakenly consider the terminal to be used by the command. Make
the substitute file descriptor unreadable, so that commands that
mistakenly attempt to read from standard input can report an error. This
redirection is a GNU extension; programs intended to be portable to
non-GNU hosts can use ‘nohup command [arg]… 0>/dev/null’ instead.
If standard output is a terminal, the command’s standard output is
appended to the file nohup.out; if that cannot be written to, it is
appended to the file
$HOME/nohup.out</samp>; and if that cannot be written to, the
command is not run.
Any <samp class="file">nohup.out</samp> or <samp class="file">$HOME/nohup.out
file created by nohup is made readable and writable only to the user,
regardless of the current umask settings.
If standard error is a terminal, it is normally redirected to the same
file descriptor as the (possibly-redirected) standard output. However,
if standard output is closed, standard error terminal output is instead
appended to the file nohup.out or $HOME/nohup.out as above.
To capture the command’s output to a file other than nohup.out you can
redirect it. For example, to capture the output of make:

nohup does not automatically put the command it runs in the background;
you must do that explicitly, by ending the command line with an ‘&’.
Also, nohup does not alter the niceness of command; use nice for that,
e.g., ‘nohup nice command’.
command must not be a special built-in utility (see Special built-in
utilities).
The only options are –help and –version. See Common options. Options
must precede operands.
Exit status:

If POSIXLY_CORRECT is set, internal failures give status 127 instead of
125.
Next: timeout: Run a command with a time limit, Previous: nohup: Run a
command immune to hangups, Up: Modified command invocation  
[Contents][Index]

23.5 stdbuf: Run a command with modified I/O stream buffering ¶

stdbuf allows one to modify the buffering operations of the three
standard I/O streams associated with a program. Synopsis:

command must start with the name of a program that
uses the ISO C FILE streams for input/output, and

does not adjust the buffering of its standard streams.
Not every command operates in this way. For example, dd does not use
FILE streams, and tee adjusts its streams’ buffering.
Any additional args are passed as additional arguments to the command.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-i mode’ ¶
‘–input=mode’
Adjust the standard input stream buffering.
‘-o mode’ ¶
‘–output=mode’
Adjust the standard output stream buffering.
‘-e mode’ ¶
‘–error=mode’
Adjust the standard error stream buffering.
The mode can be specified as follows:
‘L’
Set the stream to line buffered mode. In this mode data is coalesced
until a newline is output or input is read from any stream attached to a
terminal device. This option is invalid with standard input.
‘0’
Disable buffering of the selected stream. In this mode, data is output
immediately and only the amount of data requested is read from input.
Disabling buffering for input does not necessarily influence the
responsiveness or blocking behavior of the stream input functions. For
example, fread will still block until EOF or error or the amount
requested is read, even if the underlying read returns less data than
requested.
‘size’
Specify the size of the buffer to use in fully buffered mode. size may
be, or may be an integer optionally followed by, one of the following
multiplicative suffixes:

and so on for ‘T’, ‘P’, ‘E’, ‘Z’, ‘Y’, ‘R’, and ‘Q’. Binary prefixes can
be used, too: ‘KiB’=‘K’, ‘MiB’=‘M’, and so on.
stdbuf is installed only on platforms that use the Executable and
Linkable Format (ELF) and support the constructor attribute, so portable
scripts should not rely on its existence.
Exit status:

Previous: stdbuf: Run a command with modified I/O stream buffering, Up:
Modified command invocation   [Contents][Index]

23.6 timeout: Run a command with a time limit ¶

timeout runs the given command and kills it if it is still running after
the specified time interval. Synopsis:

command must not be a special built-in utility (see Special built-in
utilities).
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
Options must precede operands.
‘-f’ ¶
‘–foreground’
Don’t create a separate background program group, so that the managed
command can use the foreground TTY normally. This is needed to support
two situations when timing out commands, when not invoking timeout from
an interactive shell.
command is interactive and needs to read from the terminal for example
the user wants to support sending signals directly to command from the
terminal (like Ctrl-C for example)
In this mode of operation, any children of command will not be timed
out. Also SIGCONT will not be sent to command, as it’s generally not
needed with foreground processes, and can cause intermittent signal
delivery issues with programs that are monitors themselves (like GDB for
example).
‘-k duration’ ¶
‘–kill-after=duration’
Ensure the monitored command is killed by also sending a ‘KILL’ signal.
The specified duration starts from the point in time when timeout sends
the initial signal to command, i.e., not from the beginning when the
command is started.
This option has no effect if either the main duration of the timeout
command, or the duration specified to this option, is 0.
This option may be useful if the selected signal did not kill the
command, either because the signal was blocked or ignored, or if the
command takes too long (e.g. for cleanup work) to terminate itself
within a certain amount of time.
‘-p’ ¶
‘–preserve-status’
Return the exit status of the managed command on timeout, rather than a
specific exit status indicating a timeout. This is useful if the managed
command supports running for an indeterminate amount of time.
‘-s signal’ ¶
‘–signal=signal’
Send this signal to command on timeout, rather than the default ‘TERM’
signal. signal may be a name like ‘HUP’ or a number. See Signal
specifications.
‘-v’ ¶
‘–verbose’
Diagnose to standard error, any signal sent upon timeout.
duration is a floating point number in either the current or the C
locale (see Floating point numbers) followed by an optional unit:

A hexadecimal number can precede a ‘d’ suffix only if the number has a
‘p’ style exponent, e.g., ‘0x1p0d’ means one day. A duration of 0
disables the associated timeout. The actual timeout duration is
dependent on system conditions, which should be especially considered
when specifying sub-second timeouts.
Exit status:

In the case of the ‘KILL(9)’ signal, timeout returns with exit status
137, regardless of whether that signal is sent to command or to timeout
itself, i.e., these cases cannot be distinguished. In the latter case,
the command process may still be alive after timeout has forcefully been
terminated.
Examples:

Next: Delaying, Previous: Modified command invocation, Up: GNU Coreutils
  [Contents][Index]

24 Process control ¶

kill: Send a signal to processes
Up: Process control   [Contents][Index]

24.1 kill: Send a signal to processes ¶

The kill command sends a signal to processes, causing them to terminate
or otherwise act upon receiving the signal in some way. Alternatively,
it lists information about signals. Synopses:

Due to shell aliases and built-in kill functions, using an unadorned
kill interactively or in a script may get you different functionality
than that described here. Invoke it via env (i.e., env kill …) to avoid
interference from the shell.
The first form of the kill command sends a signal to all pid arguments.
The default signal to send if none is specified is ‘TERM’. The special
signal number ‘0’ does not denote a valid signal, but can be used to
test whether the pid arguments specify processes to which a signal could
be sent.
If pid is positive, the signal is sent to the process with the process
ID pid. If pid is zero, the signal is sent to all processes in the
process group of the current process. If pid is −1, the signal is sent
to all processes for which the user has permission to send a signal. If
pid is less than −1, the signal is sent to all processes in the process
group that equals the absolute value of pid.
If pid is not positive, a system-dependent set of system processes is
excluded from the list of processes to which the signal is sent.
If a negative pid argument is desired as the first one, it should be
preceded by –. However, as a common extension to POSIX, – is not
required with ‘kill -signal -pid’. The following commands are
equivalent:

The first form of the kill command succeeds if every pid argument
specifies at least one process that the signal was sent to.
The second form of the kill command lists signal information. Either the
-l or –list option, or the -t or –table option must be specified.
Without any signal argument, all supported signals are listed. The
output of -l or –list is a list of the signal names, one per line; if
signal is already a name, the signal number is printed instead. The
output of -t or –table is a table of signal numbers, names, and
descriptions. This form of the kill command succeeds if all signal
arguments are valid and if there is no output error.
The kill command also supports the –help and –version options. See
Common options.
A signal may be a signal name like ‘HUP’, or a signal number like ‘1’,
or an exit status of a process terminated by the signal. A signal name
can be given in canonical form or prefixed by ‘SIG’. The case of the
letters is ignored, except for the -signal option which must use upper
case to avoid ambiguity with lower case option letters. See Signal
specifications, for a list of supported signal names and numbers.
Next: Numeric operations, Previous: Process control, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

25 Delaying ¶

sleep: Delay for a specified time
Up: Delaying   [Contents][Index]

25.1 sleep: Delay for a specified time ¶

sleep pauses for an amount of time specified by the sum of the values of
the command line arguments. Synopsis:

Each argument is a non-negative number followed by an optional unit; the
default is seconds. The units are:
‘s’
seconds
‘m’
minutes
‘h’
hours
‘d’
days
Although portable POSIX scripts must give sleep a single non-negative
integer argument without a suffix, GNU sleep also accepts two or more
arguments, unit suffixes, and floating-point numbers in either the
current or the C locale. See Floating point numbers.
A hexadecimal number can precede a ‘d’ suffix only if the number has a
‘p’ style exponent, e.g., ‘0x1p0d’ means one day.
For instance, the following could be used to sleep for 1 second, 234
milli-, 567 micro- and 890 nanoseconds:

Also one could sleep indefinitely like:

The only options are –help and –version. See Common options.
Due to shell aliases and built-in sleep functions, using an unadorned
sleep interactively or in a script may get you different functionality
than that described here. Invoke it via env (i.e., env sleep …) to avoid
interference from the shell.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: File permissions, Previous: Delaying, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

26 Numeric operations ¶
These programs do numerically-related operations.
factor: Print prime factors
numfmt: Reformat numbers
seq: Print numeric sequences
Next: numfmt: Reformat numbers, Up: Numeric operations  
[Contents][Index]

26.1 factor: Print prime factors ¶

factor prints prime factors. Synopsis:

If no number is specified on the command line, factor reads numbers from
standard input, delimited by newlines, tabs, or spaces.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘-h’ ¶
‘–exponents’
print factors in the form p^e, rather than repeating the prime ‘p’, ‘e’
times. If the exponent ‘e’ is 1, then it is omitted.

If the number to be factored is small (less than 2^{127} on typical
machines), factor uses a faster algorithm. For example, on a circa-2021
Intel Xeon W-1350, factoring the product of the eighth and ninth
Mersenne primes (approximately 2^{92}) takes about 4 ms of CPU time:

For larger numbers, factor uses a slower algorithm. On the same
platform, factoring the eighth Fermat number 2^{256} + 1 takes about
6400 ms. However, large primes are identified quickly: it takes just 420
ms to factor the Mersenne prime 2^{11213} - 1 into itself and 1.
Factoring large numbers is, in general, hard. The Pollard–Brent rho
algorithm used by factor is particularly effective for numbers with
relatively small factors. Other methods are far better for factoring
large composite numbers that lack relatively small factors, such as
numbers that are the product of two large primes.
When testing whether a number is prime, factor uses the Baillie–PSW
primality heuristic for speed. Although Baillie–PSW has not been proven
to reject all composite numbers, the probability of a Baillie–PSW
pseudoprime is astronomically small and no such pseudoprime has been
discovered despite decades of searching by mathematicians. Any such
pseudoprime is greater than 2^{64}. For more, see: Baillie R, Fiori A,
Wagstaff Jr SS. Strengthening the Baillie–PSW primality test. Math Comp.
2021;90:1931–1955. https://doi.org/10.1090/mcom/3616.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: seq: Print numeric sequences, Previous: factor: Print prime
factors, Up: Numeric operations   [Contents][Index]

26.2 numfmt: Reformat numbers ¶

numfmt reads numbers in various representations and reformats them as
requested. The most common usage is converting numbers to/from human
representation (e.g. ‘4G’ → ‘4,000,000,000’).

numfmt converts each number on the command-line according to the
specified options (see below). If no numbers are given, it reads numbers
from standard input. numfmt can optionally extract numbers from specific
columns, maintaining proper line padding and alignment.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
See –invalid for additional information regarding exit status.
General options
Possible units:
Examples of using numfmt
26.2.1 General options ¶
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
‘–debug’ ¶
Print (to standard error) warning messages about possible erroneous
usage.
‘-d’ ¶
‘–delimiter=d’
Use the character d as input field separator (default: newline or
blank). Using non-default delimiter turns off automatic padding.
‘–field=fields’ ¶
Convert the number in input field fields (default: 1). fields supports
cut style field ranges:

‘–format=format’ ¶
Use printf-style floating FORMAT string. The format string must contain
one ‘%f’ directive, optionally with ‘‘’, ‘-’, ‘0’, width or precision
modifiers. The ‘’’ modifier will enable –grouping, the ‘-’ modifier will
enable left-aligned –padding and the width modifier will enable
right-aligned –padding. The ‘0’ width modifier (without the ‘-’
modifier) will generate leading zeros on the number, up to the specified
width. A precision specification like ‘%.1f’ will override the precision
determined from the input data or set due to –to option auto scaling.
‘–from=unit’ ¶
Auto-scales input numbers according to unit. See UNITS below. The
default is no scaling, meaning suffixes (e.g. ‘M’, ‘G’) will trigger an
error.
‘–from-unit=n’ ¶
Specify the input unit size (instead of the default 1). Use this option
when the input numbers represent other units (e.g. if the input number
‘10’ represents 10 units of 512 bytes, use ‘–from-unit=512’). Suffixes
are handled as with ‘–from=auto’.
‘–grouping’ ¶
Group digits in output numbers according to the current locale’s
grouping rules (e.g Thousands Separator character, commonly ‘.’ (dot) or
‘,’ comma). This option has no effect in ‘POSIX/C’ locale.
‘–header[=n]’ ¶
Print the first n (default: 1) lines without any conversion.
‘–invalid=mode’ ¶
The default action on input errors is to exit immediately with status
code 2. –invalid=‘abort’ explicitly specifies this default mode. With a
mode of ‘fail’, print a warning for each conversion error, and exit with
status 2. With a mode of ‘warn’, exit with status 0, even in the
presence of conversion errors, and with a mode of ‘ignore’ do not even
print diagnostics.
‘–padding=n’ ¶
Pad the output numbers to n characters, by adding spaces. If n is a
positive number, numbers will be right-aligned. If n is a negative
number, numbers will be left-aligned. By default, numbers are
automatically aligned based on the input line’s width (only with the
default delimiter).
‘–round=method’ ¶
When converting number representations, round the number according to
method, which can be ‘up’, ‘down’, ‘from-zero’ (the default),
‘towards-zero’, ‘nearest’.
‘–suffix=suffix’ ¶
Add ‘SUFFIX’ to the output numbers, and accept optional ‘SUFFIX’ in
input numbers.
‘–to=unit’ ¶
Auto-scales output numbers according to unit. See Units below. The
default is no scaling, meaning all the digits of the number are printed.
‘–to-unit=n’ ¶
Specify the output unit size (instead of the default 1). Use this option
when the output numbers represent other units (e.g. to represent
‘4,000,000’ bytes in blocks of 1kB, use ‘–to=si –to-unit=1000’).
Suffixes are handled as with ‘–from=auto’.
‘–unit-separator=sep’ ¶
Support a separator sep between the number and unit, with –from or –to
auto-scaled units. By default a blank or non-breaking space character is
accepted on input, and no separator is printed on output. When parsing
input, the specified unit separator has lower precedence than field
delimiters. See the –delimiter option above.
Examples:

‘-z’ ¶
‘–zero-terminated’
Delimit items with a zero byte rather than a newline (ASCII LF). I.e.,
treat input as items separated by ASCII NUL and terminate output items
with ASCII NUL. This option can be useful in conjunction with ‘perl -0’
or ‘find -print0’ and ‘xargs -0’ which do the same in order to reliably
handle arbitrary file names (even those containing blanks or other
special characters). With -z the newline character is treated as a field
separator.

26.2.2 Possible units: ¶
The following are the possible unit options with –from=UNITS and
–to=UNITS:
none
No scaling is performed. For input numbers, no suffixes are accepted,
and any trailing characters following the number will trigger an error.
For output numbers, all digits of the numbers will be printed.
si
Auto-scale numbers according to the International System of Units (SI)
standard. For input numbers, accept one of the following suffixes. For
output numbers, values larger than 1000 will be rounded, and printed
with one of the following suffixes:

iec
Auto-scale numbers according to the International Electrotechnical
Commission (IEC) standard. For input numbers, accept one of the
following suffixes. For output numbers, values larger than 1024 will be
rounded, and printed with one of the following suffixes:

The iec option uses a single letter suffix (e.g. ‘G’), which is not
fully standard, as the iec standard recommends a two-letter symbol (e.g
‘Gi’) – but in practice, this method is common. Compare with the iec-i
option.
iec-i
Auto-scale numbers according to the International Electrotechnical
Commission (IEC) standard. For input numbers, accept one of the
following suffixes. For output numbers, values larger than 1024 will be
rounded, and printed with one of the following suffixes:

The iec-i option uses a two-letter suffix symbol (e.g. ‘Gi’), as the iec
standard recommends, but this is not always common in practice. Compare
with the iec option.
auto
‘auto’ can only be used with –from. With this method, numbers with
single-letter suffixes like ‘K’ suffixes are interpreted as SI values,
and numbers with two-letter suffixes like ‘Ki’ are interpreted as IEC
values.

26.2.3 Examples of using numfmt ¶
Converting a single number from/to human representation:

Converting from ‘SI’ to ‘IEC’ scales (e.g. when a drive’s capacity is
advertised as ‘1TB’, while checking the drive’s capacity gives lower
values):

With both input and output scales specified, the largest defined
prefixes are supported:

Converting a single field from an input file / piped input (these
contrived examples are for demonstration purposes only, as both ls and
df support the –human-readable option to output sizes in human-readable
format):

Output can be tweaked using –padding or –format:

With locales that support grouping digits, using –grouping or –format
enables grouping. In ‘POSIX’ locale, grouping is silently ignored:

Previous: numfmt: Reformat numbers, Up: Numeric operations  
[Contents][Index]

26.3 seq: Print numeric sequences ¶

seq prints a sequence of numbers to standard output. Synopses:

seq prints the numbers from first to last by increment. By default, each
number is printed on a separate line. When increment is not specified,
it defaults to ‘1’, even when first is larger than last. first also
defaults to ‘1’. So seq 1 prints ‘1’, but seq 0 and seq 10 5 produce no
output. The sequence of numbers ends when the sum of the current number
and increment would become greater than last, so seq 1 10 10 only
produces ‘1’. increment must not be ‘0’; use the tool yes to get
repeated output of a constant number. first, increment and last must not
be NaN, but inf is supported. Floating-point numbers may be specified in
either the current or the C locale. See Floating point numbers.
The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.
Options must precede operands.
‘-f format’ ¶
‘–format=format’
Print all numbers using format. format must contain exactly one of the
‘printf’-style floating point conversion specifications ‘%a’, ‘%e’,
‘%f’, ‘%g’, ‘%A’, ‘%E’, ‘%F’, ‘%G’. The ‘%’ may be followed by zero or
more flags taken from the set ‘-+#0 ’’, then an optional width
containing one or more digits, then an optional precision consisting of
a ‘.’ followed by zero or more digits. format may also contain any
number of ‘%%’ conversion specifications. All conversion specifications
have the same meaning as with ‘printf’.
The default format is derived from first, step, and last. If these all
use a fixed point decimal representation, the default format is ‘%.pf’,
where p is the minimum precision that can represent the output numbers
exactly. Otherwise, the default format is ‘%g’.
‘-s string’ ¶
‘–separator=string’
Separate numbers with string; default is a newline. The output always
terminates with a newline.
‘-w’ ¶
‘–equal-width’
Print all numbers with the same width, by padding with leading zeros.
first, step, and last should all use a fixed point decimal
representation. (To have other kinds of padding, use –format).
You can get finer-grained control over output with -f:

If you want hexadecimal integer output, you can use printf to perform
the conversion:

For very long lists of numbers, use xargs to avoid system limitations on
the length of an argument list:

To generate octal output, use the printf %o format instead of %x.
On most systems, seq can produce whole-number output for values up to at
least 2^{53}. Larger integers are approximated. The details differ
depending on your floating-point implementation. See Floating point
numbers. A common case is that seq works with integers through 2^{64},
and larger integers may not be numerically correct:

However, when limited to non-negative whole numbers, an increment of
less than 200, and no format-specifying option, seq can print
arbitrarily large numbers. Therefore seq inf can be used to generate an
infinite sequence of numbers.
Be careful when using seq with outlandish values: otherwise you may see
surprising results, as seq uses floating point internally. For example,
on the x86 platform, where the internal representation uses a 64-bit
fraction, the command:

outputs 1.0000000000000000007 twice and skips 1.0000000000000000008.
An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.
Next: File timestamps, Previous: Numeric operations, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

27 File permissions ¶
Each file has a set of file mode bits that control the kinds of access
that users have to that file. They can be represented either in symbolic
form or as an octal number.
Structure of File Mode Bits
Symbolic Modes
Numeric Modes
Operator Numeric Modes
Directories and the Set-User-ID and Set-Group-ID Bits
Next: Symbolic Modes, Up: File permissions   [Contents][Index]

27.1 Structure of File Mode Bits ¶
The file mode bits have two parts: the file permission bits, which
control ordinary access to the file, and special mode bits, which affect
only some files.
There are three kinds of permissions that a user can have for a file:
permission to read the file. For directories, this means permission to
list the contents of the directory.
permission to write to (change) the file. For directories, this means
permission to create and remove files in the directory.
permission to execute the file (run it as a program). For directories,
this means permission to access files in the directory.
There are three categories of users who may have different permissions
to perform any of the above operations on a file:
the file’s owner;
other users who are in the file’s group;
everyone else.
Files are given an owner and group when they are created. Usually the
owner is the current user and the group is the group of the directory
the file is in, but this varies with the operating system, the file
system the file is created on, and the way the file is created. You can
change the owner and group of a file by using the chown and chgrp
commands.
In addition to the three sets of three permissions listed above, the
file mode bits have three special components, which affect only
executable files (programs) and, on most systems, directories:
The set-user-ID bit (setuid bit). ¶
On execution, set the process’s effective user ID to that of the file.
For directories on a few systems, give files created in the directory
the same owner as the directory, no matter who creates them, and set the
set-user-ID bit of newly-created subdirectories.
The set-group-ID bit (setgid bit). ¶
On execution, set the process’s effective group ID to that of the file.
For directories on most systems, give files created in the directory the
same group as the directory, no matter what group the user who creates
them is in, and set the set-group-ID bit of newly-created
subdirectories.
The restricted deletion flag or sticky bit. ¶
Prevent unprivileged users from removing or renaming a file in a
directory unless they own the file or the directory; this is commonly
found on world-writable directories like /tmp. For regular files on some
older systems, save the program’s text image on the swap device so it
will load more quickly when run, so that the image is “sticky”.
In addition to the file mode bits listed above, there may be file
attributes specific to the file system, e.g., access control lists
(ACLs), whether a file is compressed, whether a file can be modified
(immutability), and whether a file can be dumped. These are usually set
using programs specific to the file system. For example:
ext2
On GNU and GNU/Linux the file attributes specific to the ext2 file
system are set using chattr.
FFS
On FreeBSD the file flags specific to the FFS file system are set using
chflags.
Even if a file’s mode bits allow an operation on that file, that
operation may still fail, because:
the file-system-specific attributes or flags do not permit it; or

the file system is mounted as read-only.
For example, if the immutable attribute is set on a file, it cannot be
modified, regardless of the fact that you may have just run chmod a+w
FILE.
Next: Numeric Modes, Previous: Structure of File Mode Bits, Up: File
permissions   [Contents][Index]

27.2 Symbolic Modes ¶
Symbolic modes represent changes to files’ mode bits as operations on
single-character symbols. They allow you to modify either all or
selected parts of files’ mode bits, optionally based on their previous
values, and perhaps on the current umask as well (see The Umask and
Protection).
The format of symbolic modes is:

where perms is either zero or more letters from the set ‘rwxXst’, or a
single letter from the set ‘ugo’.
The following sections describe the operators and other details of
symbolic modes.
Setting Permissions
Copying Existing Permissions
Changing Special Mode Bits
Conditional Executability
Making Multiple Changes
The Umask and Protection
Next: Copying Existing Permissions, Up: Symbolic Modes  
[Contents][Index]

27.2.1 Setting Permissions ¶
The basic symbolic operations on a file’s permissions are adding,
removing, and setting the permission that certain users have to read,
write, and execute or search the file. These operations have the
following format:

The spaces between the three parts above are shown for readability only;
symbolic modes cannot contain spaces.
The users part tells which users’ access to the file is changed. It
consists of one or more of the following letters (or it can be empty;
see The Umask and Protection, for a description of what happens then).
When more than one of these letters is given, the order that they are in
does not matter.
u ¶
the user who owns the file;
g ¶
other users who are in the file’s group;
o ¶
all other users;
a
all users; the same as ‘ugo’.
The operation part tells how to change the affected users’ access to the
file, and is one of the following symbols:
+ ¶
to add the permissions to whatever permissions the users already have
for the file;
 - ¶
to remove the permissions from whatever permissions the users already
have for the file;
= ¶
to make the permissions the only permissions that the users have for the
file.
The permissions part tells what kind of access to the file should be
changed; it is normally zero or more of the following letters. As with
the users part, the order does not matter when more than one letter is
given. Omitting the permissions part is useful only with the ‘=’
operation, where it gives the specified users no access at all to the
file.
r ¶
the permission the users have to read the file;
w ¶
the permission the users have to write to the file;
x ¶
the permission the users have to execute the file, or search it if it is
a directory.
For example, to give everyone permission to read and write a regular
file, but not to execute it, use:

To remove write permission for all users other than the file’s owner,
use:

The above command does not affect the access that the owner of the file
has to it, nor does it affect whether other users can read or execute
the file.
To give everyone except a file’s owner no permission to do anything with
that file, use the mode below. Other users could still remove the file,
if they have write permission on the directory it is in.

Another way to specify the same thing is:

Next: Changing Special Mode Bits, Previous: Setting Permissions, Up:
Symbolic Modes   [Contents][Index]

27.2.2 Copying Existing Permissions ¶
You can base a file’s permissions on its existing permissions. To do
this, instead of using a series of ‘r’, ‘w’, or ‘x’ letters after the
operator, you use the letter ‘u’, ‘g’, or ‘o’. For example, the mode

adds the permissions for users who are in a file’s group to the
permissions that other users have for the file. Thus, if the file
started out as mode 664 (‘rw-rw-r–’), the above mode would change it to
mode 666 (‘rw-rw-rw-’). If the file had started out as mode 741
(‘rwxr—-x’), the above mode would change it to mode 745 (‘rwxr–r-x’).
The ‘-’ and ‘=’ operations work analogously.
Next: Conditional Executability, Previous: Copying Existing Permissions,
Up: Symbolic Modes   [Contents][Index]

27.2.3 Changing Special Mode Bits ¶
In addition to changing a file’s read, write, and execute/search
permissions, you can change its special mode bits. See Structure of File
Mode Bits, for a summary of these special mode bits.
To change the file mode bits to set the user ID on execution, use ‘u’ in
the users part of the symbolic mode and ‘s’ in the permissions part.
To change the file mode bits to set the group ID on execution, use ‘g’
in the users part of the symbolic mode and ‘s’ in the permissions part.
To set both user and group ID on execution, omit the users part of the
symbolic mode (or use ‘a’) and use ‘s’ in the permissions part.
To change the file mode bits to set the restricted deletion flag or
sticky bit, omit the users part of the symbolic mode (or use ‘a’) and
use ‘t’ in the permissions part.
For example, to set the set-user-ID mode bit of a program, you can use
the mode:

To remove both set-user-ID and set-group-ID mode bits from it, you can
use the mode:

To set the restricted deletion flag or sticky bit, you can use the mode:

The combination ‘o+s’ has no effect. On GNU systems the combinations
‘u+t’ and ‘g+t’ have no effect, and ‘o+t’ acts like plain ‘+t’.
The ‘=’ operator is not very useful with special mode bits. For example,
the mode:

does set the restricted deletion flag or sticky bit, but it also removes
all read, write, and execute/search permissions that users not in the
file’s group might have had for it.
See Directories and the Set-User-ID and Set-Group-ID Bits, for
additional rules concerning set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits and
directories.
Next: Making Multiple Changes, Previous: Changing Special Mode Bits, Up:
Symbolic Modes   [Contents][Index]

27.2.4 Conditional Executability ¶
There is one more special type of symbolic permission: if you use ‘X’
instead of ‘x’, execute/search permission is affected only if the file
is a directory or already had execute permission.
For example, this mode:

gives all users permission to search directories, or to execute files if
anyone could execute them before.
Next: The Umask and Protection, Previous: Conditional Executability, Up:
Symbolic Modes   [Contents][Index]

27.2.5 Making Multiple Changes ¶
The format of symbolic modes is actually more complex than described
above (see Setting Permissions). It provides two ways to make multiple
changes to files’ mode bits.
The first way is to specify multiple operation and permissions parts
after a users part in the symbolic mode.
For example, the mode:

gives users other than the owner of the file read permission and, if it
is a directory or if someone already had execute permission to it, gives
them execute/search permission; and it also denies them write permission
to the file. It does not affect the permission that the owner of the
file has for it. The above mode is equivalent to the two modes:

The second way to make multiple changes is to specify more than one
simple symbolic mode, separated by commas. For example, the mode:

gives everyone permission to read the file and removes write permission
on it for all users except its owner. Another example:

sets all of the permission bits for the file explicitly. (It gives users
who are not in the file’s group no permission at all for it.)
The two methods can be combined. The mode:

gives all users permission to read the file, and gives users who are in
the file’s group permission to execute/search it as well, but not
permission to write to it. The above mode could be written in several
different ways; another is:

Previous: Making Multiple Changes, Up: Symbolic Modes  
[Contents][Index]

27.2.6 The Umask and Protection ¶
If the users part of a symbolic mode is omitted, it defaults to ‘a’
(affect all users), except that any permissions that are set in the
system variable umask are not affected. The value of umask can be set
using the umask command. Its default value varies from system to system.
Omitting the users part of a symbolic mode is generally not useful with
operations other than ‘+’. It is useful with ‘+’ because it allows you
to use umask as an easily customizable protection against giving away
more permission to files than you intended to.
As an example, if umask has the value 2, which removes write permission
for users who are not in the file’s group, then the mode:

adds permission to write to the file to its owner and to other users who
are in the file’s group, but not to other users. In contrast, the mode:

ignores umask, and does give write permission for the file to all users.
Next: Operator Numeric Modes, Previous: Symbolic Modes, Up: File
permissions   [Contents][Index]

27.3 Numeric Modes ¶
As an alternative to giving a symbolic mode, you can give an octal (base
8) number that represents the mode.
The permissions granted to the user, to other users in the file’s group,
and to other users not in the file’s group each require three bits: one
bit for read, one for write, and one for execute/search permission.
These three bits are represented as one octal digit; for example, if all
three are present, the resulting 111 (in binary) is represented as the
digit 7 (in octal). The three special mode bits also require one bit
each, and they are as a group represented as another octal digit. Here
is how the bits are arranged, starting with the highest valued bit:

For example, numeric mode ‘4751’ corresponds to symbolic mode
‘u=srwx,g=rx,o=x’, and numeric mode ‘664’ corresponds to symbolic mode
‘ug=rw,o=r’. Numeric mode ‘0’ corresponds to symbolic mode ‘a=’.
A numeric mode is usually shorter than the corresponding symbolic mode,
but it is limited in that normally it cannot take into account the
previous file mode bits; it can only set them absolutely. The
set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits of directories are an exception to
this general limitation. See Directories and the Set-User-ID and
Set-Group-ID Bits. Also, operator numeric modes can take previous file
mode bits into account. See Operator Numeric Modes.
Numeric modes are always interpreted in octal; you do not have to add a
leading ‘0’, as you do in C. Mode ‘0055’ is the same as mode ‘55’.
However, modes of five digits or more, such as ‘00055’, are sometimes
special (see Directories and the Set-User-ID and Set-Group-ID Bits).
Next: Directories and the Set-User-ID and Set-Group-ID Bits, Previous:
Numeric Modes, Up: File permissions   [Contents][Index]

27.4 Operator Numeric Modes ¶
An operator numeric mode is a numeric mode that is prefixed by a ‘-’,
‘+’, or ‘=’ operator, which has the same interpretation as in symbolic
modes. For example, ‘+440’ enables read permission for the file’s owner
and group, ‘-1’ disables execute permission for other users, and ‘=600’
clears all permissions except for enabling read-write permissions for
the file’s owner. Operator numeric modes can be combined with symbolic
modes by separating them with a comma; for example, ‘=0,u+r’ clears all
permissions except for enabling read permission for the file’s owner.
The commands ‘chmod =755 dir’ and ‘chmod 755 dir’ differ in that the
former clears the directory dir’s setuid and setgid bits, whereas the
latter preserves them. See Directories and the Set-User-ID and
Set-Group-ID Bits.
Operator numeric modes are a GNU extension.
Previous: Operator Numeric Modes, Up: File permissions  
[Contents][Index]

27.5 Directories and the Set-User-ID and Set-Group-ID Bits ¶
On most systems, if a directory’s set-group-ID bit is set, newly created
subfiles inherit the same group as the directory, and newly created
subdirectories inherit the set-group-ID bit of the parent directory. On
a few systems, a directory’s set-user-ID bit has a similar effect on the
ownership of new subfiles and the set-user-ID bits of new
subdirectories. These mechanisms let users share files more easily, by
lessening the need to use chmod or chown to share new files.
These convenience mechanisms rely on the set-user-ID and set-group-ID
bits of directories. If commands like chmod and mkdir routinely cleared
these bits on directories, the mechanisms would be less convenient and
it would be harder to share files. Therefore, a command like chmod does
not affect the set-user-ID or set-group-ID bits of a directory unless
the user specifically mentions them in a symbolic mode, or uses an
operator numeric mode such as ‘=755’, or sets them in a numeric mode, or
clears them in a numeric mode that has five or more octal digits. For
example, on systems that support set-group-ID inheritance:

If you want to try to set these bits, you must mention them explicitly
in the symbolic or numeric modes, e.g.:

If you want to try to clear these bits, you must mention them explicitly
in a symbolic mode, or use an operator numeric mode, or specify a
numeric mode with five or more octal digits, e.g.:

This behavior is a GNU extension. Portable scripts should not rely on
requests to set or clear these bits on directories, as POSIX allows
implementations to ignore these requests. The GNU behavior with numeric
modes of four or fewer digits is intended for scripts portable to
systems that preserve these bits; the behavior with numeric modes of
five or more digits is for scripts portable to systems that do not
preserve the bits.
Next: Date input formats, Previous: File permissions, Up: GNU Coreutils
  [Contents][Index]

28 File timestamps ¶
Standard POSIX files have three timestamps: the access timestamp (atime)
of the last read, the modification timestamp (mtime) of the last write,
and the status change timestamp (ctime) of the last change to the file’s
meta-information. Some file systems support a fourth time: the birth
timestamp (birthtime) of when the file was created; by definition,
birthtime never changes.
One common example of a ctime change is when the permissions of a file
change. Changing the permissions doesn’t access the file, so atime
doesn’t change, nor does it modify the file, so the mtime doesn’t
change. Yet, something about the file itself has changed, and this must
be noted somewhere. This is the job of the ctime field. This is
necessary, so that, for example, a backup program can make a fresh copy
of the file, including the new permissions value. Another operation that
modifies a file’s ctime without affecting the others is renaming.
Naively, a file’s atime, mtime, and ctime are set to the current time
whenever you read, write, or change the attributes of the file
respectively, and searching a directory counts as reading it. A file’s
atime and mtime can also be set directly, via the touch command (see
touch: Change file timestamps). In practice, though, timestamps are not
updated quite that way.
For efficiency reasons, many systems are lazy about updating atimes:
when a program accesses a file, they may delay updating the file’s
atime, or may not update the file’s atime if the file has been accessed
recently, or may not update the atime at all. Similar laziness, though
typically not quite so extreme, applies to mtimes and ctimes.
Some systems emulate timestamps instead of supporting them directly, and
these emulations may disagree with the naive interpretation. For
example, a system may fake an atime or ctime by using the mtime.
The determination of what time is “current” depends on the platform.
Platforms with network file systems often use different clocks for the
operating system and for file systems; because updates typically uses
file systems’ clocks by default, clock skew can cause the resulting file
timestamps to appear to be in a program’s “future” or “past”.
When the system updates a file timestamp to a desired time t (which is
either the current time, or a time specified via the touch command),
there are several reasons the file’s timestamp may be set to a value
that differs from t. First, t may have a higher resolution than
supported. Second, a file system may use different resolutions for
different types of times. Third, file timestamps may use a different
resolution than operating system timestamps. Fourth, the operating
system primitives used to update timestamps may employ yet a different
resolution. For example, in theory a file system might use
10-microsecond resolution for access timestamp and 100-nanosecond
resolution for modification timestamp, and the operating system might
use nanosecond resolution for the current time and microsecond
resolution for the primitive that touch uses to set a file’s timestamp
to an arbitrary value.
Next: Version sort ordering, Previous: File timestamps, Up: GNU
Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

29 Date input formats ¶

First, a quote:
Our units of temporal measurement, from seconds on up to months, are so
complicated, asymmetrical and disjunctive so as to make coherent mental
reckoning in time all but impossible. Indeed, had some tyrannical god
contrived to enslave our minds to time, to make it all but impossible
for us to escape subjection to sodden routines and unpleasant surprises,
he could hardly have done better than handing down our present system.
It is like a set of trapezoidal building blocks, with no vertical or
horizontal surfaces, like a language in which the simplest thought
demands ornate constructions, useless particles and lengthy
circumlocutions. Unlike the more successful patterns of language and
science, which enable us to face experience boldly or at least
level-headedly, our system of temporal calculation silently and
persistently encourages our terror of time.
… It is as though architects had to measure length in feet, width in
meters and height in ells; as though basic instruction manuals demanded
a knowledge of five different languages. It is no wonder then that we
often look into our own immediate past or future, last Tuesday or a week
from Sunday, with feelings of helpless confusion. …
—Robert Grudin, Time and the Art of Living.
This section describes the textual date representations that GNU
programs accept. These are the strings you, as a user, can supply as
arguments to the various programs. The C interface (via the
parse_datetime function) is not described here.
General date syntax
Calendar date items
Time of day items
Time zone items
Combined date and time of day items
Day of week items
Relative items in date strings
Pure numbers in date strings
Seconds since the Epoch
Specifying time zone rules
Authors of parse_datetime
Next: Calendar date items, Up: Date input formats   [Contents][Index]

29.1 General date syntax ¶

A date is a string, possibly empty, containing many items separated by
whitespace. The whitespace may be omitted when no ambiguity arises. The
empty string means the beginning of today (i.e., midnight). Order of the
items is immaterial. A date string may contain many flavors of items:
calendar date items
time of day items
time zone items
combined date and time of day items
day of the week items
relative items
pure numbers.
We describe each of these item types in turn, below.
A few ordinal numbers may be written out in words in some contexts. This
is most useful for specifying day of the week items or relative items
(see below). Among the most commonly used ordinal numbers, the word
‘last’ stands for -1, ‘this’ stands for 0, and ‘first’ and ‘next’ both
stand for 1. Because the word ‘second’ stands for the unit of time there
is no way to write the ordinal number 2, but for convenience ‘third’
stands for 3, ‘fourth’ for 4, ‘fifth’ for 5, ‘sixth’ for 6, ‘seventh’
for 7, ‘eighth’ for 8, ‘ninth’ for 9, ‘tenth’ for 10, ‘eleventh’ for 11
and ‘twelfth’ for 12.
When a month is written this way, it is still considered to be written
numerically, instead of being “spelled in full”; this changes the
allowed strings.
In the current implementation, only English is supported for words and
abbreviations like ‘AM’, ‘DST’, ‘EST’, ‘first’, ‘January’, ‘Sunday’,
‘tomorrow’, and ‘year’.
In the current implementation, only the Gregorian calendar is supported,
regardless of the locale.
The output of the date command is not always acceptable as a date
string, not only because of the language problem and of the calendar
problem, but also because there is no standard meaning for time zone
items like ‘IST’. When using date to generate a date string intended to
be parsed later, specify a date format that is independent of language,
that uses the Gregorian calendar, and that does not use time zone items
other than ‘UTC’ and ‘Z’. Here are some ways to do this:

Alphabetic case is completely ignored in dates. Comments may be
introduced between round parentheses, as long as included parentheses
are properly nested. Hyphens not followed by a digit are currently
ignored. Leading zeros on numbers are ignored.
Invalid dates like ‘2022-02-29’ or times like ‘24:00’ are rejected. In
the typical case of a host that does not support leap seconds, a time
like ‘23:59:60’ is rejected even if it corresponds to a valid leap
second.
Next: Time of day items, Previous: General date syntax, Up: Date input
formats   [Contents][Index]

29.2 Calendar date items ¶

A calendar date item specifies a day of the year. It is specified
differently, depending on whether the month is specified numerically or
literally. All these strings specify the same calendar date:

The year can also be omitted. In this case, the last specified year is
used, or the current year if none. For example:

Here are the rules.
For numeric months, the ISO 8601 format ‘year-month-day’ is allowed,
where year is any positive number, month is a number between 01 and 12,
and day is a number between 01 and 31. A leading zero must be present if
a number is less than ten. If year is 68 or smaller, then 2000 is added
to it; otherwise, if year is less than 100, then 1900 is added to it.
The construct ‘month/day/year’, popular in the United States, is
accepted. Also ‘month/day’, omitting the year.
Literal months may be spelled out in full: ‘January’, ‘February’,
‘March’, ‘April’, ‘May’, ‘June’, ‘July’, ‘August’, ‘September’,
‘October’, ‘November’ or ‘December’. Literal months may be abbreviated
to their first three letters, possibly followed by an abbreviating dot.
It is also permitted to write ‘Sept’ instead of ‘September’.
When months are written literally, the calendar date may be given as any
of the following:

Or, omitting the year:

Next: Time zone items, Previous: Calendar date items, Up: Date input
formats   [Contents][Index]

29.3 Time of day items ¶

A time of day item in date strings specifies the time on a given day.
Here are some examples, all of which represent the same time:

More generally, the time of day may be given as ‘hour:minute:second’,
where hour is a number between 0 and 23, minute is a number between 0
and 59, and second is a number between 0 and 59 possibly followed by ‘.’
or ‘,’ and a fraction containing one or more digits. Alternatively,
‘:second’ can be omitted, in which case it is taken to be zero. On the
rare hosts that support leap seconds, second may be 60.
If the time is followed by ‘am’ or ‘pm’ (or ‘a.m.’ or ‘p.m.’), hour is
restricted to run from 1 to 12, and ‘:minute’ may be omitted (taken to
be zero). ‘am’ indicates the first half of the day, ‘pm’ indicates the
second half of the day. In this notation, 12 is the predecessor of 1:
midnight is ‘12am’ while noon is ‘12pm’. (This is the zero-oriented
interpretation of ‘12am’ and ‘12pm’, as opposed to the old tradition
derived from Latin which uses ‘12m’ for noon and ‘12pm’ for midnight.)
The time may alternatively be followed by a time zone correction,
expressed as ‘shhmm’, where s is ‘+’ or ‘-’, hh is a number of zone
hours and mm is a number of zone minutes. The zone minutes term, mm, may
be omitted, in which case the one- or two-digit correction is
interpreted as a number of hours. You can also separate hh from mm with
a colon. When a time zone correction is given this way, it forces
interpretation of the time relative to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC),
overriding any previous specification for the time zone or the local
time zone. For example, ‘+0530’ and ‘+05:30’ both stand for the time
zone 5.5 hours ahead of UTC (e.g., India). This is the best way to
specify a time zone correction by fractional parts of an hour. The
maximum zone correction is 24 hours.
Either ‘am’/‘pm’ or a time zone correction may be specified, but not
both.
Next: Combined date and time of day items, Previous: Time of day items,
Up: Date input formats   [Contents][Index]

29.4 Time zone items ¶

A time zone item specifies an international time zone, indicated by a
small set of letters, e.g., ‘UTC’ or ‘Z’ for Coordinated Universal Time.
Any included periods are ignored. By following a non-daylight-saving
time zone by the string ‘DST’ in a separate word (that is, separated by
some white space), the corresponding daylight saving time zone may be
specified. Alternatively, a non-daylight-saving time zone can be
followed by a time zone correction, to add the two values. This is
normally done only for ‘UTC’; for example, ‘UTC+05:30’ is equivalent to
‘+05:30’.
Time zone items other than ‘UTC’ and ‘Z’ are obsolescent and are not
recommended, because they are ambiguous; for example, ‘EST’ has a
different meaning in Australia than in the United States, and ‘A’ has
different meaning as a military time zone than as an obsolete RFC 822
time zone. Instead, it’s better to use unambiguous numeric time zone
corrections like ‘-0500’, as described in the previous section.
If neither a time zone item nor a time zone correction is supplied,
timestamps are interpreted using the rules of the default time zone (see
Specifying time zone rules).
Next: Day of week items, Previous: Time zone items, Up: Date input
formats   [Contents][Index]

29.5 Combined date and time of day items ¶

The ISO 8601 date and time of day extended format consists of an ISO
8601 date, a ‘T’ character separator, and an ISO 8601 time of day. This
format is also recognized if the ‘T’ is replaced by a space.
In this format, the time of day should use 24-hour notation. Fractional
seconds are allowed, with either comma or period preceding the fraction.
ISO 8601 fractional minutes and hours are not supported. Typically,
hosts support nanosecond timestamp resolution; excess precision is
silently discarded.
Here are some examples:

Next: Relative items in date strings, Previous: Combined date and time
of day items, Up: Date input formats   [Contents][Index]

29.6 Day of week items ¶

The explicit mention of a day of the week will forward the date (only if
necessary) to reach that day of the week in the future.
Days of the week may be spelled out in full: ‘Sunday’, ‘Monday’,
‘Tuesday’, ‘Wednesday’, ‘Thursday’, ‘Friday’ or ‘Saturday’. Days may be
abbreviated to their first three letters, optionally followed by a
period. The special abbreviations ‘Tues’ for ‘Tuesday’, ‘Wednes’ for
‘Wednesday’ and ‘Thur’ or ‘Thurs’ for ‘Thursday’ are also allowed.
A number may precede a day of the week item to move forward
supplementary weeks. It is best used in expression like ‘third monday’.
In this context, ‘last day’ or ‘next day’ is also acceptable; they move
one week before or after the day that day by itself would represent.
A comma following a day of the week item is ignored.
Next: Pure numbers in date strings, Previous: Day of week items, Up:
Date input formats   [Contents][Index]

29.7 Relative items in date strings ¶

Relative items adjust a date (or the current date if none) forward or
backward. The effects of relative items accumulate. Here are some
examples:

The unit of time displacement may be selected by the string ‘year’ or
‘month’ for moving by whole years or months. These are fuzzy units, as
years and months are not all of equal duration. More precise units are
‘fortnight’ which is worth 14 days, ‘week’ worth 7 days, ‘day’ worth 24
hours, ‘hour’ worth 60 minutes, ‘minute’ or ‘min’ worth 60 seconds, and
‘second’ or ‘sec’ worth one second. An ‘s’ suffix on these units is
accepted and ignored.
The unit of time may be preceded by a multiplier, given as an optionally
signed number. Unsigned numbers are taken as positively signed. No
number at all implies 1 for a multiplier. Following a relative item by
the string ‘ago’ is equivalent to preceding the unit by a multiplier
with value -1.
The string ‘tomorrow’ is worth one day in the future (equivalent to
‘day’), the string ‘yesterday’ is worth one day in the past (equivalent
to ‘day ago’).
The strings ‘now’ or ‘today’ are relative items corresponding to
zero-valued time displacement, these strings come from the fact a
zero-valued time displacement represents the current time when not
otherwise changed by previous items. They may be used to stress other
items, like in ‘12:00 today’. The string ‘this’ also has the meaning of
a zero-valued time displacement, but is preferred in date strings like
‘this thursday’.
When a relative item causes the resulting date to cross a boundary where
the clocks were adjusted, typically for daylight saving time, the
resulting date and time are adjusted accordingly.
The fuzz in units can cause problems with relative items. For example,
‘2022-12-31 -1 month’ might evaluate to 2022-12-01, because 2022-11-31
is an invalid date. To determine the previous month more reliably, you
can ask for the month before the 15th of the current month. For example:

Also, take care when manipulating dates around clock changes such as
daylight saving leaps. In a few cases these have added or subtracted as
much as 24 hours from the clock, so it is often wise to adopt universal
time by setting the TZ environment variable to ‘UTC0’ before embarking
on calendrical calculations.
Next: Seconds since the Epoch, Previous: Relative items in date strings,
Up: Date input formats   [Contents][Index]

29.8 Pure numbers in date strings ¶

The precise interpretation of a pure decimal number depends on the
context in the date string.
If the decimal number is of the form yyyymmdd and no other calendar date
item (see Calendar date items) appears before it in the date string,
then yyyy is read as the year, mm as the month number and dd as the day
of the month, for the specified calendar date.
If the decimal number is of the form hhmm and no other time of day item
appears before it in the date string, then hh is read as the hour of the
day and mm as the minute of the hour, for the specified time of day. mm
can also be omitted.
If both a calendar date and a time of day appear to the left of a number
in the date string, but no relative item, then the number overrides the
year.
Next: Specifying time zone rules, Previous: Pure numbers in date
strings, Up: Date input formats   [Contents][Index]

29.9 Seconds since the Epoch ¶
If you precede a number with ‘@’, it represents an internal timestamp as
a count of seconds. The number can contain an internal decimal point
(either ‘.’ or ‘,’); any excess precision not supported by the internal
representation is truncated toward minus infinity. Such a number cannot
be combined with any other date item, as it specifies a complete
timestamp.
Internally, computer times are represented as a count of seconds since
an Epoch—a well-defined point of time. On GNU and POSIX systems, the
Epoch is 1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC, so ‘@0’ represents this time, ‘@1’
represents 1970-01-01 00:00:01 UTC, and so forth. GNU and most other
POSIX-compliant systems support such times as an extension to POSIX,
using negative counts, so that ‘@-1’ represents 1969-12-31 23:59:59 UTC.
Most modern systems count seconds with 64-bit two’s-complement integers
of seconds with nanosecond subcounts, which is a range that includes the
known lifetime of the universe with nanosecond resolution. Some
obsolescent systems count seconds with 32-bit two’s-complement integers
and can represent times from 1901-12-13 20:45:52 through 2038-01-19
03:14:07 UTC. A few systems sport other time ranges.
On most hosts, these counts ignore the presence of leap seconds. For
example, on most hosts ‘@1483228799’ represents 2016-12-31 23:59:59 UTC,
‘@1483228800’ represents 2017-01-01 00:00:00 UTC, and there is no way to
represent the intervening leap second 2016-12-31 23:59:60 UTC.
Next: Authors of parse_datetime, Previous: Seconds since the Epoch, Up:
Date input formats   [Contents][Index]

29.10 Specifying time zone rules ¶
Normally, dates are interpreted using the rules of the current time
zone, which in turn are specified by the TZ environment variable, or by
a system default if TZ is not set. To specify a different set of default
time zone rules that apply just to one date, start the date with a
string of the form ‘TZ="rule"’. The two quote characters (‘"’) must be
present in the date, and any quotes or backslashes within rule must be
escaped by a backslash.
For example, with the GNU date command you can answer the question “What
time is it in New York when a Paris clock shows 6:30am on October 31,
2022?” by using a date beginning with ‘TZ="Europe/Paris"’ as shown in
the following shell transcript:

In this example, the –date operand begins with its own TZ setting, so
the rest of that operand is processed according to ‘Europe/Paris’ rules,
treating the string ‘2022-11-14 06:30’ as if it were in Paris. However,
since the output of the date command is processed according to the
overall time zone rules, it uses New York time. (Paris was normally six
hours ahead of New York in 2022, but this example refers to a brief
Halloween period when the gap was five hours.)
A TZ value is a rule that typically names a location in the ‘tz’
database. A recent catalog of location names appears in the TWiki Date
and Time Gateway. A few non-GNU hosts require a colon before a location
name in a TZ setting, e.g., ‘TZ=":America/New_York"’.
The ‘tz’ database includes a wide variety of locations ranging from
‘Africa/Abidjan’ to ‘Pacific/Tongatapu’, but if you are at sea and have
your own private time zone, or if you are using a non-GNU host that does
not support the ‘tz’ database, you may need to use a POSIX rule instead.
The previously-mentioned POSIX rule ‘UTC0’ says that the time zone
abbreviation is ‘UTC’, the zone is zero hours away from Greenwich, and
there is no daylight saving time. POSIX rules can also specify nonzero
Greenwich offsets. For example, the following shell transcript answers
the question “What time is it five and a half hours east of Greenwich
when a clock seven hours west of Greenwich shows 9:50pm on July 12,
2022?”

This example uses the somewhat-confusing POSIX convention for rules.
‘TZ="<-07>+7"’ says that the time zone abbreviation is ‘-07’ and the
time zone is 7 hours west of Greenwich, and ‘TZ="<+0530>-5:30"’ says
that the time zone abbreviation is ‘+0530’ and the time zone is 5 hours
30 minutes east of Greenwich. (One should never use a setting like
‘TZ="UTC-5"’, since this would incorrectly imply that local time is five
hours east of Greenwich and the time zone is called “UTC”.) Although
trickier POSIX TZ settings like ‘TZ="<-05>+5<-04>,M3.2.0/2,M11.1.0/2"’
can specify some daylight saving regimes, location-based settings like
‘TZ="America/New_York"’ are typically simpler and more accurate
historically. See Specifying the Time Zone with TZ in The GNU C Library.
Previous: Specifying time zone rules, Up: Date input formats  
[Contents][Index]

29.11 Authors of parse_datetime ¶

parse_datetime started life as getdate, as originally implemented by
Steven M. Bellovin (smb@research.att.com) while at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The code was later tweaked by a couple of
people on Usenet, then completely overhauled by Rich $alz
(rsalz@bbn.com) and Jim Berets (jberets@bbn.com) in August, 1990.
Various revisions for the GNU system were made by David MacKenzie, Jim
Meyering, Paul Eggert and others, including renaming it to get_date to
avoid a conflict with the alternative Posix function getdate, and a
later rename to parse_datetime. The Posix function getdate can parse
more locale-specific dates using strptime, but relies on an environment
variable and external file, and lacks the thread-safety of
parse_datetime.
This chapter was originally produced by François Pinard
(pinard@iro.umontreal.ca) from the parse_datetime.y source code, and
then edited by K. Berry (kb@cs.umb.edu).
Next: Opening the Software Toolbox, Previous: Date input formats, Up:
GNU Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

30 Version sort ordering ¶
Version sort overview
Version sort implementation
Differences from Debian version sort
Advanced Topics
Next: Version sort implementation, Up: Version sort ordering  
[Contents][Index]

30.1 Version sort overview ¶
Version sort puts items such as file names and lines of text in an order
that feels natural to people, when the text contains a mixture of
letters and digits.
Lexicographic sorting usually does not produce the order that one
expects because comparisons are made on a character-by-character basis.
Compare the sorting of the following items:

Version sort functionality in GNU Coreutils is available in the ‘ls -v’,
‘ls –sort=version’, ‘sort -V’, and ‘sort –version-sort’ commands.
Using version sort in GNU Coreutils
Version sort and natural sort
Variations in version sort order
Next: Version sort and natural sort, Up: Version sort overview  
[Contents][Index]

30.1.1 Using version sort in GNU Coreutils ¶
Two GNU Coreutils programs use version sort: ls and sort.
To list files in version sort order, use ls with the -v or –sort=version
option:

To sort text files in version sort order, use sort with the -V or
–version-sort option:

To sort a specific field in a file, use -k/–key with ‘V’ type sorting,
which is often combined with ‘b’ to ignore leading blanks in the field:

Next: Variations in version sort order, Previous: Using version sort in
GNU Coreutils, Up: Version sort overview   [Contents][Index]

30.1.2 Version sort and natural sort ¶
In GNU Coreutils, the name version sort was chosen because it is based
on Debian GNU/Linux’s algorithm of sorting packages’ versions.
Its goal is to answer questions like “Which package is newer,
firefox-60.7.2 or firefox-60.12.3?”
In Coreutils this algorithm was slightly modified to work on more
general input such as textual strings and file names (see Differences
from Debian version sort).
In other contexts, such as other programs and other programming
languages, a similar sorting functionality is called natural sort.
Previous: Version sort and natural sort, Up: Version sort overview  
[Contents][Index]

30.1.3 Variations in version sort order ¶
Currently there is no standard for version sort.
That is: there is no one correct way or universally agreed-upon way to
order items. Each program and each programming language can decide its
own ordering algorithm and call it “version sort”, “natural sort”, or
other names.
See Other version/natural sort implementations for many examples of
differing sorting possibilities, each with its own rules and variations.
If you find a bug in the Coreutils implementation of version-sort,
please report it. See Reporting version sort bugs.
Next: Differences from Debian version sort, Previous: Version sort
overview, Up: Version sort ordering   [Contents][Index]

30.2 Version sort implementation ¶
GNU Coreutils version sort is based on the “upstream version” part of
Debian’s versioning scheme.
This section describes the GNU Coreutils sort ordering rules.
The next section (Differences from Debian version sort) describes some
differences between GNU Coreutils and Debian version sort.
Version-sort ordering rules
Version sort is not the same as numeric sort
Version sort punctuation
Punctuation vs letters
The tilde ‘~’
Version sort ignores locale
Next: Version sort is not the same as numeric sort, Up: Version sort
implementation   [Contents][Index]

30.2.1 Version-sort ordering rules ¶
The version sort ordering rules are:
The strings are compared from left to right.

First the initial part of each string consisting entirely of non-digit
bytes is determined.

These two parts (either of which may be empty) are compared lexically.
If a difference is found it is returned.

The lexical comparison is a lexicographic comparison of byte strings,
except that:

ASCII letters sort before other bytes.
A tilde sorts before anything, even an empty string.
Then the initial part of the remainder of each string that contains all
the leading digits is determined. The numerical values represented by
these two parts are compared, and any difference found is returned as
the result of the comparison.

For these purposes an empty string (which can only occur at the end of
one or both version strings being compared) counts as zero.

Because the numerical value is used, non-identical strings can compare
equal. For example, ‘123’ compares equal to ‘00123’, and the empty
string compares equal to ‘0’.
These two steps (comparing and removing initial non-digit strings and
initial digit strings) are repeated until a difference is found or both
strings are exhausted.
Consider the version-sort comparison of two file names: foo07.7z and
foo7a.7z. The two strings will be broken down to the following parts,
and the parts compared respectively from each string:

Comparison flow based on above algorithm:
The first parts (‘foo’) are identical.

The second parts (‘07’ and ‘7’) are compared numerically, and compare
equal.

The third parts (‘.’ vs ‘a.’) are compared lexically by ASCII value
(rule 2.B).

The first byte of the first string (‘.’) is compared to the first byte
of the second string (‘a’).

Rule 2.B.a says letters sorts before non-letters. Hence, ‘a’ comes
before ‘.’.

The returned result is that foo7a.7z comes before foo07.7z.
Result when using sort:

See Differences from Debian version sort for additional rules that
extend the Debian algorithm in Coreutils.
Next: Version sort punctuation, Previous: Version-sort ordering rules,
Up: Version sort implementation   [Contents][Index]

30.2.2 Version sort is not the same as numeric sort ¶
Consider the following text file:

Numeric sort (‘sort -n’) treats the entire string as a single numeric
value, and compares it to other values. For example, ‘8.1’, ‘8.10’ and
‘8.100’ are numerically equivalent, and are ordered together. Similarly,
‘8.49’ is numerically less than ‘8.5’, and appears before first.
Version sort (‘sort -V’) first breaks down the string into digit and
non-digit parts, and only then compares each part (see annotated example
in Version-sort ordering rules).
Comparing the string ‘8.1’ to ‘8.01’, first the ‘8’s are compared (and
are identical), then the dots (‘.’) are compared and are identical, and
lastly the remaining digits are compared numerically (‘1’ and ‘01’) –
which are numerically equal. Hence, ‘8.01’ and ‘8.1’ are grouped
together.
Similarly, comparing ‘8.5’ to ‘8.49’ – the ‘8’ and ‘.’ parts are
identical, then the numeric values ‘5’ and ‘49’ are compared. The
resulting ‘5’ appears before ‘49’.
This sorting order (where ‘8.5’ comes before ‘8.49’) is common when
assigning versions to computer programs (while perhaps not intuitive or
“natural” for people).
Next: Punctuation vs letters, Previous: Version sort is not the same as
numeric sort, Up: Version sort implementation   [Contents][Index]

30.2.3 Version sort punctuation ¶
Punctuation is sorted by ASCII order (rule 2.B).

Why is 1.0.5_src.tar.gz listed before 1.0_src.tar.gz?
Based on the version-sort ordering rules, the strings are broken down
into the following parts:

The fourth parts (‘.’ and ‘src.tar.gz’) are compared lexically by ASCII
order. The ‘.’ (ASCII value 46) is less than ‘’ (ASCII value 95) – and
should be listed before it.
Hence, 1.0.5_src.tar.gz is listed first.
If a different byte appears instead of the underscore (for example,
percent sign ‘%’ ASCII value 37, which is less than dot’s ASCII value of
46), that file will be listed first:

The same reasoning applies to the following example, as ‘.’ with ASCII
value 46 is less than ‘/’ with ASCII value 47:

Next: The tilde ‘~’, Previous: Version sort punctuation, Up: Version
sort implementation   [Contents][Index]

30.2.4 Punctuation vs letters ¶
Rule 2.B.a says letters sort before non-letters (after breaking down a
string to digit and non-digit parts).

The input strings consist entirely of non-digits, and based on the above
algorithm have only one part, all non-digits (‘a%’ vs ‘az’).
Each part is then compared lexically, byte-by-byte; ‘a’ compares
identically in both strings.
Rule 2.B.a says a letter like ‘z’ sorts before a non-letter like ‘%’ –
hence ‘az’ appears first (despite ‘z’ having ASCII value of 122, much
larger than ‘%’ with ASCII value 37).
Next: Version sort ignores locale, Previous: Punctuation vs letters, Up:
Version sort implementation   [Contents][Index]

30.2.5 The tilde ‘~’ ¶
Rule 2.B.b says the tilde ‘~’ (ASCII 126) sorts before other bytes, and
before an empty string.

The sorting algorithm starts by breaking down the string into non-digit
(rule 2) and digit parts (rule 3).
In the above input file, only the last line in the input file starts
with a non-digit (‘~’). This is the first part. All other lines in the
input file start with a digit – their first non-digit part is empty.
Based on rule 2.B.b, tilde ‘~’ sorts before other bytes and before the
empty string – hence it comes before all other strings, and is listed
first in the sorted output.
The remaining lines (‘1’, ‘1%’, ‘1.2’, ‘1~’) follow similar logic: The
digit part is extracted (1 for all strings) and compares equal. The
following extracted parts for the remaining input lines are: empty part,
‘%’, ‘.’, ‘~’.
Tilde sorts before all others, hence the line ‘1~’ appears next.
The remaining lines (‘1’, ‘1%’, ‘1.2’) are sorted based on previously
explained rules.
Previous: The tilde ‘~’, Up: Version sort implementation  
[Contents][Index]

30.2.6 Version sort ignores locale ¶
In version sort, Unicode characters are compared byte-by-byte according
to their binary representation, ignoring their Unicode value or the
current locale.
Most commonly, Unicode characters are encoded as UTF-8 bytes; for
example, GREEK SMALL LETTER ALPHA (U+03B1, ‘α’) is encoded as the UTF-8
sequence ‘0xCE 0xB1’). The encoding is compared byte-by-byte, e.g.,
first ‘0xCE’ (decimal value 206) then ‘0xB1’ (decimal value 177).

Ignoring the first letter (‘a’) which is identical in all strings, the
compared values are:
‘a’ and ‘z’ are letters, and sort before all other non-digits.
Then, percent sign ‘%’ (ASCII value 37) is compared to the first byte of
the UTF-8 sequence of ‘α’, which is 0xCE or 206). The value 37 is
smaller, hence ‘a%’ is listed before ‘aα’.
Next: Advanced Topics, Previous: Version sort implementation, Up:
Version sort ordering   [Contents][Index]

30.3 Differences from Debian version sort ¶
GNU Coreutils version sort differs slightly from the official Debian
algorithm, in order to accommodate more general usage and file name
listing.
Hyphen-minus ‘-’ and colon ‘:’
Special priority in GNU Coreutils version sort
Special handling of file extensions
Comparing two strings using Debian’s algorithm
Next: Special priority in GNU Coreutils version sort, Up: Differences
from Debian version sort   [Contents][Index]

30.3.1 Hyphen-minus ‘-’ and colon ‘:’ ¶
In Debian’s version string syntax the version consists of three parts:

The ‘epoch’ and ‘debian_revision’ parts are optional.
Example of such version strings:

If the ‘debian_revision part’ is not present, hyphens ‘-’ are not
allowed. If epoch is not present, colons ‘:’ are not allowed.
If these parts are present, hyphen and/or colons can appear only once in
valid Debian version strings.
In GNU Coreutils, such restrictions are not reasonable (a file name can
have many hyphens, a line of text can have many colons).
As a result, in GNU Coreutils hyphens and colons are treated exactly
like all other punctuation, i.e., they are sorted after letters. See
Version sort punctuation.
In Debian, these characters are treated differently than in Coreutils: a
version string with hyphen will sort before similar strings without
hyphens.
Compare:

For further details, see Comparing two strings using Debian’s algorithm
and GNU Bug 35939.
Next: Special handling of file extensions, Previous: Hyphen-minus ‘-’
and colon ‘:’, Up: Differences from Debian version sort  
[Contents][Index]

30.3.2 Special priority in GNU Coreutils version sort ¶
In GNU Coreutils version sort, the following items have special priority
and sort before all other strings (listed in order):
The empty string

The string ‘.’ (a single dot, ASCII 46)

The string ‘..’ (two dots)

Strings starting with dot (‘.’) sort before strings starting with any
other byte.
Example:

These priorities make perfect sense for ‘ls -v’: The special files dot
‘.’ and dot-dot ‘..’ will be listed first, followed by any hidden files
(files starting with a dot), followed by non-hidden files.
For ‘sort -V’ these priorities might seem arbitrary. However, because
the sorting code is shared between the ls and sort program, the ordering
rules are the same.
Next: Comparing two strings using Debian’s algorithm, Previous: Special
priority in GNU Coreutils version sort, Up: Differences from Debian
version sort   [Contents][Index]

30.3.3 Special handling of file extensions ¶
GNU Coreutils version sort implements specialized handling of strings
that look like file names with extensions. This enables slightly more
natural ordering of file names.
The following additional rules apply when comparing two strings where
both begin with non-‘.’. They also apply when comparing two strings
where both begin with ‘.’ but neither is ‘.’ or ‘..’.
A suffix (i.e., a file extension) is defined as: a dot, followed by an
ASCII letter or tilde, followed by zero or more ASCII letters, digits,
or tildes; all repeated zero or more times, and ending at string end.
This is equivalent to matching the extended regular expression
(.[A-Za-z~][A-Za-z0-9~])$ in the C locale. The longest such match is
used, except that a suffix is not allowed to match an entire nonempty
string.

The suffixes are temporarily removed, and the strings are compared
without them, using version sort (see Version-sort ordering rules)
without special priority (see Special priority in GNU Coreutils version
sort).

If the suffix-less strings do not compare equal, this comparison result
is used and the suffixes are effectively ignored.

If the suffix-less strings compare equal, the suffixes are restored and
the entire strings are compared using version sort.
Examples for rule 1:
‘hello-8.txt’: the suffix is ‘.txt’

‘hello-8.2.txt’: the suffix is ‘.txt’ (‘.2’ is not included because the
dot is not followed by a letter)

‘hello-8.0.12.tar.gz’: the suffix is ‘.tar.gz’ (‘.0.12’ is not included)

‘hello-8.2’: no suffix (suffix is an empty string)

‘hello.foobar65’: the suffix is ‘.foobar65’

‘gcc-c++-10.8.12-0.7rc2.fc9.tar.bz2’: the suffix is ‘.fc9.tar.bz2’
(‘.7rc2’ is not included as it begins with a digit)

‘.autom4te.cfg’: the suffix is the entire string.
Examples for rule 2:
Comparing ‘hello-8.txt’ to ‘hello-8.2.12.txt’, the ‘.txt’ suffix is
temporarily removed from both strings.

Comparing ‘foo-10.3.tar.gz’ to ‘foo-10.tar.xz’, the suffixes ‘.tar.gz’
and ‘.tar.xz’ are temporarily removed from the strings.
Example for rule 3:
Comparing ‘hello.foobar65’ to ‘hello.foobar4’, the suffixes (‘.foobar65’
and ‘.foobar4’) are temporarily removed. The remaining strings are
identical (‘hello’). The suffixes are then restored, and the entire
strings are compared (‘hello.foobar4’ comes first).
Examples for rule 4:
When comparing the strings ‘hello-8.2.txt’ and ‘hello-8.10.txt’, the
suffixes (‘.txt’) are temporarily removed. The remaining strings
(‘hello-8.2’ and ‘hello-8.10’) are compared as previously described
(‘hello-8.2’ comes first). (In this case the suffix removal algorithm
does not have a noticeable effect on the resulting order.)
How does the suffix-removal algorithm effect ordering results?
Consider the comparison of hello-8.txt and hello-8.2.txt.
Without the suffix-removal algorithm, the strings will be broken down to
the following parts:

The comparison of the third parts (‘.’ vs ‘.txt’) will determine that
the shorter string comes first – resulting in hello-8.2.txt appearing
first.
Indeed this is the order in which Debian’s dpkg compares the strings.
A more natural result is that hello-8.txt should come before
hello-8.2.txt, and this is where the suffix-removal comes into play:
The suffixes (‘.txt’) are removed, and the remaining strings are broken
down into the following parts:

As empty strings sort before non-empty strings, the result is ‘hello-8’
being first.
A real-world example would be listing files such as: gcc_10.fc9.tar.gz
and gcc_10.8.12.7rc2.fc9.tar.bz2: Debian’s algorithm would list
gcc_10.8.12.7rc2.fc9.tar.bz2 first, while ‘ls -v’ will list
gcc_10.fc9.tar.gz first.
These priorities make sense for ‘ls -v’: Versioned files will be listed
in a more natural order.
For ‘sort -V’ these priorities might seem arbitrary. However, because
the sorting code is shared between the ls and sort program, the ordering
rules are the same.
Previous: Special handling of file extensions, Up: Differences from
Debian version sort   [Contents][Index]

30.3.4 Comparing two strings using Debian’s algorithm ¶
The Debian program dpkg (available on all Debian and Ubuntu
installations) can compare two strings using the –compare-versions
option.
To use it, create a helper shell function (simply copy & paste the
following snippet to your shell command-prompt):

Then compare two strings by calling compver:

Note that dpkg will warn if the strings have invalid syntax:

To illustrate the different handling of hyphens between Debian and
Coreutils algorithms (see Hyphen-minus ‘-’ and colon ‘:’):

To illustrate the different handling of file extension: (see Special
handling of file extensions):

Previous: Differences from Debian version sort, Up: Version sort
ordering   [Contents][Index]

30.4 Advanced Topics ¶
Reporting version sort bugs
Other version/natural sort implementations
Related source code
Next: Other version/natural sort implementations, Up: Advanced Topics  
[Contents][Index]

30.4.1 Reporting version sort bugs ¶
If you suspect a bug in GNU Coreutils version sort (i.e., in the output
of ‘ls -v’ or ‘sort -V’), please first check the following:
Is the result consistent with Debian’s own ordering (using dpkg, see
Comparing two strings using Debian’s algorithm)? If it is, then this is
not a bug – please do not report it.

If the result differs from Debian’s, is it explained by one of the
sections in Differences from Debian version sort? If it is, then this is
not a bug – please do not report it.

If you have a question about specific ordering which is not explained
here, please write to coreutils@gnu.org, and provide a concise example
that will help us diagnose the issue.

If you still suspect a bug which is not explained by the above, please
write to bug-coreutils@gnu.org with a concrete example of the suspected
incorrect output, with details on why you think it is incorrect.

Next: Related source code, Previous: Reporting version sort bugs, Up:
Advanced Topics   [Contents][Index]

30.4.2 Other version/natural sort implementations ¶
As previously mentioned, there are multiple variations on
version/natural sort, each with its own rules. Some examples are:
Natural Sorting variants in Rosetta Code.

Python’s natsort package (includes detailed description of their sorting
rules: natsort – how it works).

Ruby’s version_sorter.

Perl has multiple packages for natural and version sorts (each likely
with its own rules and nuances): Sort::Naturally, Sort::Versions,
CPAN::Version.

PHP has a built-in function natsort.

NodeJS’s natural-sort package.

In zsh, the glob modifier ‘*(n)’ will expand to files in natural sort
order.

When writing C programs, the GNU libc library (‘glibc’) provides the
strverscmp(3) function to compare two strings, and versionsort(3)
function to compare two directory entries (despite the names, they are
not identical to GNU Coreutils version sort ordering).

Using Debian’s sorting algorithm in:

python: Stack Overflow Example #4957741.

NodeJS: deb-version-compare.
Previous: Other version/natural sort implementations, Up: Advanced
Topics   [Contents][Index]

30.4.3 Related source code ¶
Debian’s code which splits a version string into
epoch/upstream_version/debian_revision parts:
parsehelp.c:parseversion().

Debian’s code which performs the upstream_version comparison: version.c.

Gnulib code (used by GNU Coreutils) which performs the version
comparison: filevercmp.c.
Next: GNU Free Documentation License, Previous: Version sort ordering,
Up: GNU Coreutils   [Contents][Index]

31 Opening the Software Toolbox ¶
An earlier version of this chapter appeared in the What’s GNU? column of
the June 1994 Linux Journal. It was written by Arnold Robbins.
Toolbox Introduction
I/O Redirection
The who Command
The cut Command
The sort Command
The uniq Command
Putting the Tools Together
Next: I/O Redirection, Up: Opening the Software Toolbox  
[Contents][Index]

Toolbox Introduction ¶
This month’s column is only peripherally related to the GNU Project, in
that it describes a number of the GNU tools on your GNU/Linux system and
how they might be used. What it’s really about is the “Software Tools”
philosophy of program development and usage.
The software tools philosophy was an important and integral concept in
the initial design and development of Unix (of which GNU/Linux and GNU
are essentially clones). Unfortunately, in the modern day press of
Internetworking and flashy GUIs, it seems to have fallen by the wayside.
This is a shame, since it provides a powerful mental model for solving
many kinds of problems.
Many people carry a Swiss Army knife around in their pants pockets (or
purse). A Swiss Army knife is a handy tool to have: it has several knife
blades, a screwdriver, tweezers, toothpick, nail file, corkscrew, and
perhaps a number of other things on it. For the everyday, small
miscellaneous jobs where you need a simple, general purpose tool, it’s
just the thing.
On the other hand, an experienced carpenter doesn’t build a house using
a Swiss Army knife. Instead, he has a toolbox chock full of specialized
tools – a saw, a hammer, a screwdriver, a plane, and so on. And he knows
exactly when and where to use each tool; you won’t catch him hammering
nails with the handle of his screwdriver.
The Unix developers at Bell Labs were all professional programmers and
trained computer scientists. They had found that while a
one-size-fits-all program might appeal to a user because there’s only
one program to use, in practice such programs are
difficult to write,

difficult to maintain and debug, and

difficult to extend to meet new situations.
Instead, they felt that programs should be specialized tools. In short,
each program “should do one thing well.” No more and no less. Such
programs are simpler to design, write, and get right – they only do one
thing.
Furthermore, they found that with the right machinery for hooking
programs together, that the whole was greater than the sum of the parts.
By combining several special purpose programs, you could accomplish a
specific task that none of the programs was designed for, and accomplish
it much more quickly and easily than if you had to write a special
purpose program. We will see some (classic) examples of this further on
in the column. (An important additional point was that, if necessary,
take a detour and build any software tools you may need first, if you
don’t already have something appropriate in the toolbox.)
Next: The who Command, Previous: Toolbox Introduction, Up: Opening the
Software Toolbox   [Contents][Index]

I/O Redirection ¶
Hopefully, you are familiar with the basics of I/O redirection in the
shell, in particular the concepts of “standard input,” “standard
output,” and “standard error”. Briefly, “standard input” is a data
source, where data comes from. A program should not need to either know
or care if the data source is a regular file, a keyboard, a magnetic
tape, or even a punched card reader. Similarly, “standard output” is a
data sink, where data goes to. The program should neither know nor care
where this might be. Programs that only read their standard input, do
something to the data, and then send it on, are called filters, by
analogy to filters in a water pipeline.
With the Unix shell, it’s very easy to set up data pipelines:

We start out by creating the raw data; each filter applies some
successive transformation to the data, until by the time it comes out of
the pipeline, it is in the desired form.
This is fine and good for standard input and standard output. Where does
the standard error come in to play? Well, think about filter1 in the
pipeline above. What happens if it encounters an error in the data it
sees? If it writes an error message to standard output, it will just
disappear down the pipeline into filter2’s input, and the user will
probably never see it. So programs need a place where they can send
error messages so that the user will notice them. This is standard
error, and it is usually connected to your console or window, even if
you have redirected standard output of your program away from your
screen.
For filter programs to work together, the format of the data has to be
agreed upon. The most straightforward and easiest format to use is
simply lines of text. Unix data files are generally just streams of
bytes, with lines delimited by the ASCII LF (Line Feed) character,
conventionally called a “newline” in the Unix literature. (This is ‘’ if
you’re a C programmer.) This is the format used by all the traditional
filtering programs. (Many earlier operating systems had elaborate
facilities and special purpose programs for managing binary data. Unix
has always shied away from such things, under the philosophy that it’s
easiest to simply be able to view and edit your data with a text
editor.)
OK, enough introduction. Let’s take a look at some of the tools, and
then we’ll see how to hook them together in interesting ways. In the
following discussion, we will only present those command line options
that interest us. As you should always do, double check your system
documentation for the full story.
Next: The cut Command, Previous: I/O Redirection, Up: Opening the
Software Toolbox   [Contents][Index]

The who Command ¶
The first program is the who command. By itself, it generates a list of
the users who are currently logged in. Although I’m writing this on a
single-user system, we’ll pretend that several people are logged in:

Here, the ‘$’ is the usual shell prompt, at which I typed ‘who’. There
are three people logged in, and I am logged in twice. On traditional
Unix systems, user names are never more than eight characters long. This
little bit of trivia will be useful later. The output of who is nice,
but the data is not all that exciting.
Next: The sort Command, Previous: The who Command, Up: Opening the
Software Toolbox   [Contents][Index]

The cut Command ¶
The next program we’ll look at is the cut command. This program cuts out
columns or fields of input data. For example, we can tell it to print
just the login name and full name from the /etc/passwd file. The
/etc/passwd file has seven fields, separated by colons:

To get the first and fifth fields, we would use cut like this:

With the -c option, cut will cut out specific characters (i.e., columns)
in the input lines. This is useful for input data that has fixed width
fields, and does not have a field separator. For example, list the
Monday dates for the current month:

Next: The uniq Command, Previous: The cut Command, Up: Opening the
Software Toolbox   [Contents][Index]

The sort Command ¶
Next we’ll look at the sort command. This is one of the most powerful
commands on a Unix-style system; one that you will often find yourself
using when setting up fancy data plumbing.
The sort command reads and sorts each file named on the command line. It
then merges the sorted data and writes it to standard output. It will
read standard input if no files are given on the command line (thus
making it into a filter). The sort is based on the character collating
sequence or based on user-supplied ordering criteria.
Next: Putting the Tools Together, Previous: The sort Command, Up:
Opening the Software Toolbox   [Contents][Index]

The uniq Command ¶
Finally (at least for now), we’ll look at the uniq program. When sorting
data, you will often end up with duplicate lines, lines that are
identical. Usually, all you need is one instance of each line. This is
where uniq comes in. The uniq program reads its standard input. It
prints only one copy of each repeated line. It does have several
options. Later on, we’ll use the -c option, which prints each unique
line, preceded by a count of the number of times that line occurred in
the input.
Previous: The uniq Command, Up: Opening the Software Toolbox  
[Contents][Index]

Putting the Tools Together ¶
Now, let’s suppose this is a large ISP server system with dozens of
users logged in. The management wants the system administrator to write
a program that will generate a sorted list of logged in users.
Furthermore, even if a user is logged in multiple times, his or her name
should only show up in the output once.
The administrator could sit down with the system documentation and write
a C program that did this. It would take perhaps a couple of hundred
lines of code and about two hours to write it, test it, and debug it.
However, knowing the software toolbox, the administrator can instead
start out by generating just a list of logged on users:

Next, sort the list:

Finally, run the sorted list through uniq, to weed out duplicates:

The sort command actually has a -u option that does what uniq does.
However, uniq has other uses for which one cannot substitute ‘sort -u’.
The administrator puts this pipeline into a shell script, and makes it
available for all the users on the system (‘#’ is the system
administrator, or root, prompt):

There are four major points to note here. First, with just four
programs, on one command line, the administrator was able to save about
two hours worth of work. Furthermore, the shell pipeline is just about
as efficient as the C program would be, and it is much more efficient in
terms of programmer time. People time is much more expensive than
computer time, and in our modern “there’s never enough time to do
everything” society, saving two hours of programmer time is no mean
feat.
Second, it is also important to emphasize that with the combination of
the tools, it is possible to do a special purpose job never imagined by
the authors of the individual programs.
Third, it is also valuable to build up your pipeline in stages, as we
did here. This allows you to view the data at each stage in the
pipeline, which helps you acquire the confidence that you are indeed
using these tools correctly.
Finally, by bundling the pipeline in a shell script, other users can use
your command, without having to remember the fancy plumbing you set up
for them. In terms of how you run them, shell scripts and compiled
programs are indistinguishable.
After the previous warm-up exercise, we’ll look at two additional, more
complicated pipelines. For them, we need to introduce two more tools.
The first is the tr command, which stands for “transliterate.” The tr
command works on a character-by-character basis, changing characters.
Normally it is used for things like mapping upper case to lower case:

There are several options of interest:
-c
work on the complement of the listed characters, i.e., operations apply
to characters not in the given set
-d
delete characters in the first set from the output
-s
squeeze repeated characters in the output into just one character.
We will be using all three options in a moment.
The other command we’ll look at is comm. The comm command takes two
sorted input files as input data, and prints out the files’ lines in
three columns. The output columns are the data lines unique to the first
file, the data lines unique to the second file, and the data lines that
are common to both. The -1, -2, and -3 command line options omit the
respective columns. (This is non-intuitive and takes a little getting
used to.) For example:

The file name - tells comm to read standard input instead of a regular
file.
Now we’re ready to build a fancy pipeline. The first application is a
word frequency counter. This helps an author determine if he or she is
over-using certain words.
The first step is to change the case of all the letters in our input
file to one case. “The” and “the” are the same word when doing counting.

The next step is to get rid of punctuation. Quoted words and unquoted
words should be treated identically; it’s easiest to just get the
punctuation out of the way.

The second tr command operates on the complement of the listed
characters, which are all the letters, the digits, the underscore, and
the blank. The ‘’ represents the newline character; it has to be left
alone. (The ASCII tab character should also be included for good measure
in a production script.)
At this point, we have data consisting of words separated by blank
space. The words only contain alphanumeric characters (and the
underscore). The next step is break the data apart so that we have one
word per line. This makes the counting operation much easier, as we will
see shortly.

This command turns blanks into newlines. The -s option squeezes multiple
newline characters in the output into just one, removing blank lines.
(The ‘>’ is the shell’s “secondary prompt.” This is what the shell
prints when it notices you haven’t finished typing in all of a command.)
We now have data consisting of one word per line, no punctuation, all
one case. We’re ready to count each word:

At this point, the data might look something like this:

The output is sorted by word, not by count! What we want is the most
frequently used words first. Fortunately, this is easy to accomplish,
with the help of two more sort options:
-n
do a numeric sort, not a textual one
-r
reverse the order of the sort
The final pipeline looks like this:

Whew! That’s a lot to digest. Yet, the same principles apply. With six
commands, on two lines (really one long one split for convenience),
we’ve created a program that does something interesting and useful, in
much less time than we could have written a C program to do the same
thing.
A minor modification to the above pipeline can give us a simple spelling
checker! To determine if you’ve spelled a word correctly, all you have
to do is look it up in a dictionary. If it is not there, then chances
are that your spelling is incorrect. So, we need a dictionary. The
conventional location for a dictionary is /usr/share/dict/words.
Now, how to compare our file with the dictionary? As before, we generate
a sorted list of words, one per line:

Now, all we need is a list of words that are not in the dictionary. Here
is where the comm command comes in. Unfortunately comm operates on
sorted input and /usr/share/dict/words is not sorted the way that sort
and comm normally use, so we first create a properly-sorted copy of the
dictionary and then run a pipeline that uses the copy.

The -2 and -3 options eliminate lines that are only in the dictionary
(the second file), and lines that are in both files. Lines only in the
first file (standard input, our stream of words), are words that are not
in the dictionary. These are likely candidates for spelling errors. This
pipeline was the first cut at a production spelling checker on Unix.
There are some other tools that deserve brief mention.
grep
search files for text that matches a regular expression
wc
count lines, words, characters
tee
a T-fitting for data pipes, copies data to files and to standard output
sed
the stream editor, an advanced tool
awk
a data manipulation language, another advanced tool
The software tools philosophy also espoused the following bit of advice:
“Let someone else do the hard part.” This means, take something that
gives you most of what you need, and then massage it the rest of the way
until it’s in the form that you want.
To summarize:
Each program should do one thing well. No more, no less.

Combining programs with appropriate plumbing leads to results where the
whole is greater than the sum of the parts. It also leads to novel uses
of programs that the authors might never have imagined.

Programs should never print extraneous header or trailer data, since
these could get sent on down a pipeline. (A point we didn’t mention
earlier.)

Let someone else do the hard part.

Know your toolbox! Use each program appropriately. If you don’t have an
appropriate tool, build one.
All the programs discussed are available as described in GNU core
utilities.
None of what I have presented in this column is new. The Software Tools
philosophy was first introduced in the book Software Tools, by Brian
Kernighan and P.J. Plauger (Addison-Wesley, ISBN 0-201-03669-X). This
book showed how to write and use software tools. It was written in 1976,
using a preprocessor for FORTRAN named ratfor (RATional FORtran). At the
time, C was not as ubiquitous as it is now; FORTRAN was. The last
chapter presented a ratfor to FORTRAN processor, written in ratfor.
ratfor looks an awful lot like C; if you know C, you won’t have any
problem following the code.
In 1981, the book was updated and made available as Software Tools in
Pascal (Addison-Wesley, ISBN 0-201-10342-7). Both books are still in
print and are well worth reading if you’re a programmer. They certainly
made a major change in how I view programming.
The programs in both books are available from Brian Kernighan’s home
page. For a number of years, there was an active Software Tools Users
Group, whose members had ported the original ratfor programs to
essentially every computer system with a FORTRAN compiler. The
popularity of the group waned in the middle 1980s as Unix began to
spread beyond universities.
With the current proliferation of GNU code and other clones of Unix
programs, these programs now receive little attention; modern C versions
are much more efficient and do more than these programs do.
Nevertheless, as exposition of good programming style, and evangelism
for a still-valuable philosophy, these books are unparalleled, and I
recommend them highly.
Acknowledgment: I would like to express my gratitude to Brian Kernighan
of Bell Labs, the original Software Toolsmith, for reviewing this
column.
Next: Index, Previous: Opening the Software Toolbox, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

Appendix A GNU Free Documentation License ¶
Version 1.3, 3 November 2008

PREAMBLE

The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other
functional and useful document free in the sense of freedom: to assure
everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or
without modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially.
Secondarily, this License preserves for the author and publisher a way
to get credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for
modifications made by others.
This License is a kind of “copyleft”, which means that derivative works
of the document must themselves be free in the same sense. It
complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft license
designed for free software.
We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free
software, because free software needs free documentation: a free program
should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the software
does. But this License is not limited to software manuals; it can be
used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or whether it is
published as a printed book. We recommend this License principally for
works whose purpose is instruction or reference.
APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS

This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be
distributed under the terms of this License. Such a notice grants a
world-wide, royalty-free license, unlimited in duration, to use that
work under the conditions stated herein. The “Document”, below, refers
to any such manual or work. Any member of the public is a licensee, and
is addressed as “you”. You accept the license if you copy, modify or
distribute the work in a way requiring permission under copyright law.
A “Modified Version” of the Document means any work containing the
Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with
modifications and/or translated into another language.
A “Secondary Section” is a named appendix or a front-matter section of
the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the
publishers or authors of the Document to the Document’s overall subject
(or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly
within that overall subject. (Thus, if the Document is in part a
textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any
mathematics.) The relationship could be a matter of historical
connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal,
commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.
The “Invariant Sections” are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are
designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that
says that the Document is released under this License. If a section does
not fit the above definition of Secondary then it is not allowed to be
designated as Invariant. The Document may contain zero Invariant
Sections. If the Document does not identify any Invariant Sections then
there are none.
The “Cover Texts” are certain short passages of text that are listed, as
Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the
Document is released under this License. A Front-Cover Text may be at
most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.
A “Transparent” copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy,
represented in a format whose specification is available to the general
public, that is suitable for revising the document straightforwardly
with generic text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic
paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available drawing editor,
and that is suitable for input to text formatters or for automatic
translation to a variety of formats suitable for input to text
formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file format whose
markup, or absence of markup, has been arranged to thwart or discourage
subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent. An image format
is not Transparent if used for any substantial amount of text. A copy
that is not “Transparent” is called “Opaque”.
Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII
without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML
using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML,
PostScript or PDF designed for human modification. Examples of
transparent image formats include PNG, XCF and JPG. Opaque formats
include proprietary formats that can be read and edited only by
proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or
processing tools are not generally available, and the machine-generated
HTML, PostScript or PDF produced by some word processors for output
purposes only.
The “Title Page” means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus
such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this
License requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which
do not have any title page as such, “Title Page” means the text near the
most prominent appearance of the work’s title, preceding the beginning
of the body of the text.
The “publisher” means any person or entity that distributes copies of
the Document to the public.
A section “Entitled XYZ” means a named subunit of the Document whose
title either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following
text that translates XYZ in another language. (Here XYZ stands for a
specific section name mentioned below, such as “Acknowledgements”,
“Dedications”, “Endorsements”, or “History”.) To “Preserve the Title” of
such a section when you modify the Document means that it remains a
section “Entitled XYZ” according to this definition.
The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which
states that this License applies to the Document. These Warranty
Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in this License,
but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other implication that
these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and has no effect on the
meaning of this License.
VERBATIM COPYING

You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either
commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the
copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies to
the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other
conditions whatsoever to those of this License. You may not use
technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further copying
of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept
compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough
number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.
You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and
you may publicly display copies.
COPYING IN QUANTITY

If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have
printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the
Document’s license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the
copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts:
Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back
cover. Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify you as the
publisher of these copies. The front cover must present the full title
with all words of the title equally prominent and visible. You may add
other material on the covers in addition. Copying with changes limited
to the covers, as long as they preserve the title of the Document and
satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in other
respects.
If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit
legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit
reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent
pages.
If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering
more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent
copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a
computer-network location from which the general network-using public
has access to download using public-standard network protocols a
complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material. If
you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when
you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this
Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location
until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque
copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to
the public.
It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the
Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give
them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.
MODIFICATIONS

You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the
conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the
Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version
filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution and
modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy of it.
In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:
Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct from
that of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which should,
if there were any, be listed in the History section of the Document).
You may use the same title as a previous version if the original
publisher of that version gives permission.

List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified Version,
together with at least five of the principal authors of the Document
(all of its principal authors, if it has fewer than five), unless they
release you from this requirement.

State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified
Version, as the publisher.

Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.

Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent to
the other copyright notices.

Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice
giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the terms
of this License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.

Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections and
required Cover Texts given in the Document’s license notice.

Include an unaltered copy of this License.

Preserve the section Entitled “History”, Preserve its Title, and add to
it an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and publisher
of the Modified Version as given on the Title Page. If there is no
section Entitled “History” in the Document, create one stating the
title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as given on its
Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified Version as stated
in the previous sentence.

Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for public
access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the network
locations given in the Document for previous versions it was based on.
These may be placed in the “History” section. You may omit a network
location for a work that was published at least four years before the
Document itself, or if the original publisher of the version it refers
to gives permission.

For any section Entitled “Acknowledgements” or “Dedications”, Preserve
the Title of the section, and preserve in the section all the substance
and tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements and/or dedications
given therein.

Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in their
text and in their titles. Section numbers or the equivalent are not
considered part of the section titles.

Delete any section Entitled “Endorsements”. Such a section may not be
included in the Modified Version.

Do not retitle any existing section to be Entitled “Endorsements” or to
conflict in title with any Invariant Section.

Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.
If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices
that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from
the Document, you may at your option designate some or all of these
sections as invariant. To do this, add their titles to the list of
Invariant Sections in the Modified Version’s license notice. These
titles must be distinct from any other section titles.
You may add a section Entitled “Endorsements”, provided it contains
nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties—for
example, statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by
an organization as the authoritative definition of a standard.
You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a
passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list
of Cover Texts in the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover
Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or through arrangements
made by) any one entity. If the Document already includes a cover text
for the same cover, previously added by you or by arrangement made by
the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you may not add another;
but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission from the
previous publisher that added the old one.
The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License
give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or
imply endorsement of any Modified Version.
COMBINING DOCUMENTS

You may combine the Document with other documents released under this
License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified
versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the
Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and
list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its license
notice, and that you preserve all their Warranty Disclaimers.
The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and
multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single
copy. If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but
different contents, make the title of each such section unique by adding
at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original author or
publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number. Make the
same adjustment to the section titles in the list of Invariant Sections
in the license notice of the combined work.
In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled “History” in
the various original documents, forming one section Entitled “History”;
likewise combine any sections Entitled “Acknowledgements”, and any
sections Entitled “Dedications”. You must delete all sections Entitled
“Endorsements.”
COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS

You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this
License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in
the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for
verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.
You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute
it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this
License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all
other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.
AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS

A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and
independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium, is called an “aggregate” if the copyright resulting
from the compilation is not used to limit the legal rights of the
compilation’s users beyond what the individual works permit. When the
Document is included in an aggregate, this License does not apply to the
other works in the aggregate which are not themselves derivative works
of the Document.
If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies
of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half of the
entire aggregate, the Document’s Cover Texts may be placed on covers
that bracket the Document within the aggregate, or the electronic
equivalent of covers if the Document is in electronic form. Otherwise
they must appear on printed covers that bracket the whole aggregate.
TRANSLATION

Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute
translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing
Invariant Sections with translations requires special permission from
their copyright holders, but you may include translations of some or all
Invariant Sections in addition to the original versions of these
Invariant Sections. You may include a translation of this License, and
all the license notices in the Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers,
provided that you also include the original English version of this
License and the original versions of those notices and disclaimers. In
case of a disagreement between the translation and the original version
of this License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will
prevail.
If a section in the Document is Entitled “Acknowledgements”,
“Dedications”, or “History”, the requirement (section 4) to Preserve its
Title (section 1) will typically require changing the actual title.
TERMINATION

You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except
as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, or distribute it is void, and will automatically
terminate your rights under this License.
However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license
from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally,
unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates
your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright holder fails to
notify you of the violation by some reasonable means prior to 60 days
after the cessation.
Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated
permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by
some reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice
of violation of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder,
and you cure the violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the
notice.
Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the
licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under
this License. If your rights have been terminated and not permanently
reinstated, receipt of a copy of some or all of the same material does
not give you any rights to use it.
FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE

The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the
GNU Free Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns. See https://www.gnu.org/licenses/.
Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If
the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this
License “or any later version” applies to it, you have the option of
following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or
of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the
Free Software Foundation. If the Document does not specify a version
number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not
as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document specifies
that a proxy can decide which future versions of this License can be
used, that proxy’s public statement of acceptance of a version
permanently authorizes you to choose that version for the Document.
RELICENSING

“Massive Multiauthor Collaboration Site” (or “MMC Site”) means any World
Wide Web server that publishes copyrightable works and also provides
prominent facilities for anybody to edit those works. A public wiki that
anybody can edit is an example of such a server. A “Massive Multiauthor
Collaboration” (or “MMC”) contained in the site means any set of
copyrightable works thus published on the MMC site.
“CC-BY-SA” means the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0
license published by Creative Commons Corporation, a not-for-profit
corporation with a principal place of business in San Francisco,
California, as well as future copyleft versions of that license
published by that same organization.
“Incorporate” means to publish or republish a Document, in whole or in
part, as part of another Document.
An MMC is “eligible for relicensing” if it is licensed under this
License, and if all works that were first published under this License
somewhere other than this MMC, and subsequently incorporated in whole or
in part into the MMC, (1) had no cover texts or invariant sections, and
(2) were thus incorporated prior to November 1, 2008.
The operator of an MMC Site may republish an MMC contained in the site
under CC-BY-SA on the same site at any time before August 1, 2009,
provided the MMC is eligible for relicensing.
ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents ¶
To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of
the License in the document and put the following copyright and license
notices just after the title page:

If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts,
replace the “with…Texts.” line with this:

If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other
combination of the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the
situation.
If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we
recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free
software license, such as the GNU General Public License, to permit
their use in free software.
Previous: GNU Free Documentation License, Up: GNU Coreutils  
[Contents][Index]

Index ¶
Jump to:  
_   -   !   [   *   /   </b>   &   %   +   <   =   >   |   1   2   3   5
  A   B   C   D   E   F   G   H   I   J   K   L   M   N   O   P   Q   R
  S   T   U   V   W   X   Y   Z  
Index Entry
Section
_
_POSIX2_VERSION
Standards conformance
_POSIX2_VERSION
tail invocation
_POSIX2_VERSION
sort invocation
_POSIX2_VERSION
uniq invocation
_POSIX2_VERSION
touch invocation
-
-
Numeric expressions
-
env invocation
- and Unix rm
rm invocation
–
Common options
–across
pr invocation
–additional-suffix
split invocation
–address-radix
od invocation
–adjustment
nice invocation
–algorithm
cksum general options
–all
unexpand invocation
–all
Which files are listed
–all
df invocation
–all
du invocation
–all
stty invocation
–all
who invocation
–all
nproc invocation
–all
uname invocation
–all-repeated
uniq invocation
–almost-all
Which files are listed
–apparent-size
du invocation
–append
tee invocation
–archive
cp invocation
–argv0
env invocation
–attributes-only
cp invocation
–author
What information is listed
–auto-reference
Output formatting in ptx
–backup
Backup options
–backup
cp invocation
–backup
install invocation
–backup
mv invocation
–backup
ln invocation
–base16
basenc invocation
–base2lsbf
basenc invocation
–base2msbf
basenc invocation
–base32
basenc invocation
–base32hex
basenc invocation
–base58
basenc invocation
–base64
basenc invocation
–base64
cksum general options
–base64url
basenc invocation
–batch-size
sort invocation
–before
tac invocation
–binary
cksum common options
–block-signal
env invocation
–block-size
Block size
–block-size
What information is listed
–block-size
df invocation
–block-size
du invocation
–block-size=size
Block size
–body-numbering
nl invocation
–boot
who invocation
–bourne-shell
dircolors invocation
–break-file
Input processing in ptx
–buffer-size
sort invocation
–bytes
fold invocation
–bytes
head invocation
–bytes
tail invocation
–bytes
split invocation
–bytes
wc invocation
–bytes
cut invocation
–bytes
du invocation
–c-shell
dircolors invocation
–cached
stat invocation
–canonicalize
readlink invocation
–canonicalize
realpath invocation
–canonicalize-existing
readlink invocation
–canonicalize-existing
realpath invocation
–canonicalize-missing
readlink invocation
–canonicalize-missing
realpath invocation
–changes
chown invocation
–changes
chgrp invocation
–changes
chmod invocation
–characters
fold invocation
–characters
cut invocation
–chars
wc invocation
–chdir
env invocation
–check
cksum common options
–check
sort invocation
–check
sort invocation
–check-chars
uniq invocation
–check-order
comm invocation
–check-order
General options in join
–classify
General output formatting
–color
General output formatting
–columns
pr invocation
–compare
install invocation
–complement
cut invocation
–complement
tr invocation
–compress-program
sort invocation
–compute
runcon invocation
–context
What information is listed
–context
cp invocation
–context
install invocation
–context
mv invocation
–context
mkdir invocation
–context
mkfifo invocation
–context
mknod invocation
–context
id invocation
–copy-contents
cp invocation
–count
uniq invocation
–count
who invocation
–count-links
du invocation
–crown-margin
fmt invocation
–csh
dircolors invocation
–data
sync invocation
–date
touch invocation
–date
Options for date
–date-format
pr invocation
–dead
who invocation
–debug
tail invocation
–debug
wc invocation
–debug
cksum general options
–debug
sort invocation
–debug
cp invocation
–debug
install invocation
–debug
mv invocation
–debug
Options for date
–debug
env invocation
–debug
numfmt invocation
–decode
base64 invocation
–default-signal
env invocation
–delete
tr invocation
–delimiter
cut invocation
–delimiter
numfmt invocation
–delimiters
paste invocation
–dereference
Which files are listed
–dereference
cp invocation
–dereference
chown invocation
–dereference
chgrp invocation
–dereference
chmod invocation
–dereference
du invocation
–dereference
stat invocation
–dereference
chcon invocation
–dereference-args
du invocation
–dereference-command-line
Which files are listed
–dereference-command-line-symlink-to-dir
Which files are listed
–dictionary-order
sort invocation
–digits
csplit invocation
–dir
rm invocation
–directory
Which files are listed
–directory
install invocation
–directory
ln invocation
–directory
mktemp invocation
–dired
What information is listed
–double-space
pr invocation
–dry-run
mktemp invocation
–echo
shuf invocation
–elide-empty-files
split invocation
–elide-empty-files
csplit invocation
–endian
od invocation
–equal-width
seq invocation
–error
stdbuf invocation
–escape
Formatting the file names
–exact
shred invocation
–exchange
mv invocation
–exclude
du invocation
–exclude-from
du invocation
–exclude-type
df invocation
–expand-tabs
pr invocation
–exponents
factor invocation
–field
numfmt invocation
–field-separator
sort invocation
–fields
cut invocation
–file
stty invocation
–file
Options for date
–file-system
stat invocation
–file-system
sync invocation
–file-type
General output formatting
–files0-from
wc invocation
–files0-from
sort invocation
–files0-from
du invocation
–filter
split invocation
–first-line-number
pr invocation
–first-only
unexpand invocation
–flag-truncation
Output formatting in ptx
–follow
tail invocation
–footer-numbering
nl invocation
–force
cp invocation
–force
mv invocation
–force
rm invocation
–force
shred invocation
–force
ln invocation
–foreground
timeout invocation
–form-feed
pr invocation
–format
od invocation
–format
Output formatting in ptx
–format
What information is listed
–format
General output formatting
–format
General output formatting
–format
General output formatting
–format
General output formatting
–format
stat invocation
–format
numfmt invocation
–format
seq invocation
–format=tex
Output formatting in ptx
–from
chown invocation
–from
chgrp invocation
–from
numfmt invocation
–from-unit
numfmt invocation
–full-time
What information is listed
–gap-size
Output formatting in ptx
–general-numeric-sort
sort invocation
–goal
fmt invocation
–group
uniq invocation
–group
install invocation
–group
id invocation
–group-directories-first
Sorting the output
–grouping
numfmt invocation
–groups
id invocation
–groups
chroot invocation
–hardware-platform
uname invocation
–head-count
shuf invocation
–header
pr invocation
–header
General options in join
–header
numfmt invocation
–header-numbering
nl invocation
–heading
who invocation
–help
Common options
–hex-suffixes
split invocation
–hide
Which files are listed
–hide-control-chars
Formatting the file names
–human-numeric-sort
sort invocation
–human-readable
Block size
–human-readable
What information is listed
–human-readable
df invocation
–human-readable
du invocation
–hyperlink
General output formatting
–ignore
Which files are listed
–ignore
nproc invocation
–ignore-backups
Which files are listed
–ignore-case
sort invocation
–ignore-case
uniq invocation
–ignore-case
Charset selection in ptx
–ignore-case
General options in join
–ignore-environment
env invocation
–ignore-fail-on-non-empty
rmdir invocation
–ignore-file
Input processing in ptx
–ignore-garbage
base64 invocation
–ignore-interrupts
tee invocation
–ignore-leading-blanks
sort invocation
–ignore-missing
cksum common options
–ignore-nonprinting
sort invocation
–ignore-signal
env invocation
–indent
pr invocation
–indicator-style
General output formatting
–indicator-style
General output formatting
–indicator-style
General output formatting
–indicator-style
General output formatting
–initial
expand invocation
–inode
What information is listed
–inodes
df invocation
–inodes
du invocation
–input
stdbuf invocation
–input-range
shuf invocation
–interactive
cp invocation
–interactive
mv invocation
–interactive
rm invocation
–interactive
ln invocation
–invalid
numfmt invocation
–io-blocks
truncate invocation
–iso-8601
Options for date
–iterations
shred invocation
–join-blank-lines
nl invocation
–join-lines
pr invocation
–keep-directory-symlink
cp invocation
–keep-files
csplit invocation
–kernel-name
uname invocation
–kernel-release
uname invocation
–kernel-version
uname invocation
–key
sort invocation
–kibibytes
General output formatting
–kill-after
timeout invocation
–length
pr invocation
–length
cksum general options
–length
b2sum invocation
–line-bytes
split invocation
–line-increment
nl invocation
–lines
head invocation
–lines
tail invocation
–lines
split invocation
–lines
wc invocation
–link
cp invocation
–list-signal-handling
env invocation
–literal
Formatting the file names
–local
df invocation
–logical
ln invocation
–logical
realpath invocation
–logical
pwd invocation
–login
who invocation
–lookup
who invocation
–lookup
pinky invocation
–machine
uname invocation
–macro-name
Output formatting in ptx
–max-depth
du invocation
–max-line-length
wc invocation
–max-unchanged-stats
tail invocation
–merge
pr invocation
–merge
sort invocation
–mesg
who invocation
–message
who invocation
–mode
install invocation
–mode
mkdir invocation
–mode
mkfifo invocation
–mode
mknod invocation
–month-sort
sort invocation
–multiple
basename invocation
–name
id invocation
–no-clobber
cp invocation
–no-clobber
mv invocation
–no-copy
mv invocation
–no-create
touch invocation
–no-create
truncate invocation
–no-dereference
cp invocation
–no-dereference
ln invocation
–no-dereference
chown invocation
–no-dereference
chgrp invocation
–no-dereference
chmod invocation
–no-dereference
touch invocation
–no-dereference
du invocation
–no-dereference
chcon invocation
–no-file-warnings
pr invocation
–no-group
What information is listed
–no-newline
readlink invocation
–no-preserve
cp invocation
–no-preserve-root
rm invocation
–no-preserve-root
chown invocation
–no-preserve-root
chgrp invocation
–no-preserve-root
chmod invocation
–no-preserve-root
chcon invocation
–no-renumber
nl invocation
–no-symlinks
realpath invocation
–no-sync
df invocation
–no-target-directory
Target directory
–no-target-directory
cp invocation
–no-target-directory
install invocation
–no-target-directory
mv invocation
–no-target-directory
ln invocation
–nocheck-order
comm invocation
–nocheck-order
General options in join
–nodename
uname invocation
–null
du invocation
–null
printenv invocation
–null
env invocation
–number
cat invocation
–number
split invocation
–number-format
nl invocation
–number-lines
pr invocation
–number-nonblank
cat invocation
–number-separator
nl invocation
–number-width
nl invocation
–numeric-sort
sort invocation
–numeric-suffixes
split invocation
–numeric-uid-gid
What information is listed
–omit-header
pr invocation
–omit-pagination
pr invocation
–one-file-system
cp invocation
–one-file-system
rm invocation
–one-file-system
du invocation
–only-delimited
cut invocation
–only-file
Input processing in ptx
–operating-system
uname invocation
–output
sort invocation
–output
shuf invocation
–output
df invocation
–output
stdbuf invocation
–output-delimiter
comm invocation
–output-delimiter
cut invocation
–output-duplicates
od invocation
–output-error
tee invocation
–output-tabs
pr invocation
–owner
install invocation
–padding
numfmt invocation
–page-width
pr invocation
–pages=page_range
pr invocation
–parallel
sort invocation
–parents
cp invocation
–parents
mkdir invocation
–parents
rmdir invocation
–physical
ln invocation
–physical
realpath invocation
–physical
pwd invocation
–pid
tail invocation
–portability
df invocation
–portability
pathchk invocation
–prefix
fmt invocation
–prefix
csplit invocation
–preserve
cp invocation
–preserve-context
install invocation
–preserve-root
rm invocation
–preserve-root
chown invocation
–preserve-root
chgrp invocation
–preserve-root
chmod invocation
–preserve-root
chcon invocation
–preserve-status
timeout invocation
–preserve-timestamps
install invocation
–print-database
dircolors invocation
–print-ls-colors
dircolors invocation
–print-type
df invocation
–printf
stat invocation
–process
who invocation
–processor
uname invocation
–quiet
head invocation
–quiet
tail invocation
–quiet
csplit invocation
–quiet
cksum common options
–quiet
readlink invocation
–quiet
chown invocation
–quiet
chgrp invocation
–quiet
chmod invocation
–quiet
mktemp invocation
–quiet
realpath invocation
–quiet
tty invocation
–quote-name
Formatting the file names
–quoting-style
Formatting the file names
–quoting-style
Formatting the file names
–quoting-style
Formatting the file names
–quoting-style
Formatting the file names
–random-sort
sort invocation
–random-source
sort invocation
–random-source
shuf invocation
–random-source
shred invocation
–range
chcon invocation
–range
runcon invocation
–raw
cksum general options
–read-bytes
od invocation
–real
id invocation
–recursive
Which files are listed
–recursive
cp invocation
–recursive
rm invocation
–recursive
chown invocation
–recursive
chgrp invocation
–recursive
chmod invocation
–recursive
chcon invocation
–reference
chown invocation
–reference
chgrp invocation
–reference
chmod invocation
–reference
touch invocation
–reference
truncate invocation
–reference
Options for date
–reference
chcon invocation
–references
Input processing in ptx
–reflink
cp invocation
–regex
tac invocation
–relative
ln invocation
–relative-base
realpath invocation
–relative-base
Realpath usage examples
–relative-to
realpath invocation
–relative-to
Realpath usage examples
–remove
shred invocation
–remove-destination
cp invocation
–repeat
shuf invocation
–repeated
uniq invocation
–resolution
Options for date
–retry
tail invocation
–reverse
sort invocation
–reverse
Sorting the output
–rfc-2822
Options for date
–rfc-3339
Options for date
–rfc-822
Options for date
–rfc-email
Options for date
–right-side-refs
Output formatting in ptx
–role
chcon invocation
–role
runcon invocation
–round
numfmt invocation
–round
numfmt invocation
–round=down
numfmt invocation
–round=from-zero
numfmt invocation
–round=nearest
numfmt invocation
–round=towards-zero
numfmt invocation
–round=up
numfmt invocation
–runlevel
who invocation
–save
stty invocation
–section-delimiter
nl invocation
–sentence-regexp
Input processing in ptx
–sep-string
pr invocation
–separate-dirs
du invocation
–separator
tac invocation
–separator
pr invocation
–separator
split invocation
–separator
seq invocation
–serial
paste invocation
–set
Options for date
–sh
dircolors invocation
–short
who invocation
–show-all
cat invocation
–show-control-chars
pr invocation
–show-control-chars
Formatting the file names
–show-ends
cat invocation
–show-nonprinting
cat invocation
–show-nonprinting
pr invocation
–show-tabs
cat invocation
–si
Block size
–si
What information is listed
–si
df invocation
–si
du invocation
–signal
timeout invocation
–silent
head invocation
–silent
tail invocation
–silent
csplit invocation
–silent
readlink invocation
–silent
chown invocation
–silent
chgrp invocation
–silent
chmod invocation
–silent
tty invocation
–size
What information is listed
–size
shred invocation
–size
truncate invocation
–skip-bytes
od invocation
–skip-chars
uniq invocation
–skip-chdir
chroot invocation
–skip-fields
uniq invocation
–sleep-interval
tail invocation
–sort
sort invocation
–sort
sort invocation
–sort
sort invocation
–sort
sort invocation
–sort
sort invocation
–sort
sort invocation
–sort
Sorting the output
–sort
Sorting the output
–sort
Sorting the output
–sort
Sorting the output
–sort
Sorting the output
–sort
Sorting the output
–sort
Sorting the output
–spaces
fold invocation
–sparse
cp invocation
–split-only
fmt invocation
–split-string
env invocation
–squeeze-blank
cat invocation
–squeeze-repeats
tr invocation
–stable
sort invocation
–starting-line-number
nl invocation
–status
cksum common options
–strict
cksum common options
–strings
od invocation
–strip
install invocation
–strip
realpath invocation
–strip-program
install invocation
–strip-trailing-slashes
cp invocation
–strip-trailing-slashes
mv invocation
–suffix
Backup options
–suffix
cp invocation
–suffix
install invocation
–suffix
mv invocation
–suffix
ln invocation
–suffix
basename invocation
–suffix
mktemp invocation
–suffix
numfmt invocation
–suffix-format
csplit invocation
–suffix-length
split invocation
–summarize
du invocation
–suppress-matched
csplit invocation
–symbolic
ln invocation
–symbolic-link
cp invocation
–sync
df invocation
–sysv
sum invocation
–tabs
expand invocation
–tabs
unexpand invocation
–tabsize
General output formatting
–tag
cksum common options
–tagged-paragraph
fmt invocation
–target-directory
Target directory
–target-directory
cp invocation
–target-directory
install invocation
–target-directory
mv invocation
–target-directory
ln invocation
–temporary-directory
sort invocation
–terse
stat invocation
–text
cksum common options
–threshold
du invocation
–time
Sorting the output
–time
Sorting the output
–time
Sorting the output
–time
Sorting the output
–time
touch invocation
–time
touch invocation
–time
du invocation
–time
du invocation
–time
du invocation
–time
who invocation
–time-style
Formatting file timestamps
–time-style
du invocation
–tmpdir
mktemp invocation
–to
numfmt invocation
–to-unit
numfmt invocation
–total
wc invocation
–total
comm invocation
–total
df invocation
–total
du invocation
–traditional
od invocation
–traditional
General options in ptx
–truncate-set1
tr invocation
–type
df invocation
–type
chcon invocation
–type
runcon invocation
–typeset-mode
Output formatting in ptx
–unbuffered
split invocation
–uniform-spacing
fmt invocation
–unique
sort invocation
–unique
uniq invocation
–unit-separator
numfmt invocation
–universal
Options for date
–unset
env invocation
–untagged
cksum general options
–update
cp invocation
–update
mv invocation
–user
id invocation
–user
chcon invocation
–user
runcon invocation
–users
who invocation
–userspec
chroot invocation
–utc
Options for date
–verbose
head invocation
–verbose
tail invocation
–verbose
split invocation
–verbose
cp invocation
–verbose
install invocation
–verbose
mv invocation
–verbose
rm invocation
–verbose
shred invocation
–verbose
ln invocation
–verbose
mkdir invocation
–verbose
readlink invocation
–verbose
rmdir invocation
–verbose
chown invocation
–verbose
chgrp invocation
–verbose
chmod invocation
–verbose
chcon invocation
–verbose
timeout invocation
–version
Common options
–version-sort
sort invocation
–warn
cksum common options
–width
od invocation
–width
fmt invocation
–width
pr invocation
–width
fold invocation
–width
Output formatting in ptx
–width
General output formatting
–word-regexp
Input processing in ptx
–words
wc invocation
–wrap
base64 invocation
–writable
who invocation
–z85
basenc invocation
–zero
cksum common options
–zero
General output formatting
–zero
shred invocation
–zero
readlink invocation
–zero
basename invocation
–zero
dirname invocation
–zero
realpath invocation
–zero
id invocation
–zero-terminated
head invocation
–zero-terminated
tail invocation
–zero-terminated
sort invocation
–zero-terminated
shuf invocation
–zero-terminated
uniq invocation
–zero-terminated
comm invocation
–zero-terminated
cut invocation
–zero-terminated
paste invocation
–zero-terminated
General options in join
–zero-terminated
numfmt invocation
‘-’, removing files beginning with
rm invocation
-0
du invocation
-0
printenv invocation
-0
env invocation
-1
comm invocation
-1
General options in join
-1
General output formatting
-2
comm invocation
-2
General options in join
-3
comm invocation
-A
cat invocation
-A
od invocation
-a
od invocation
-a
pr invocation
-a
split invocation
-a
cksum general options
-A
Output formatting in ptx
-a
General options in join
-a
unexpand invocation
-a
Which files are listed
-A
Which files are listed
-a
cp invocation
-a
touch invocation
-a
df invocation
-a
du invocation
-A
du invocation
-a
Connectives for test
-a
tee invocation
-a
basename invocation
-a
stty invocation
-a
id invocation
-a
who invocation
-a
uname invocation
-a
env invocation
-b
Backup options
-b
cat invocation
-b
tac invocation
-b
nl invocation
-b
od invocation
-b
fold invocation
-b
split invocation
-b
csplit invocation
-b
cksum common options
-b
sort invocation
-b
Input processing in ptx
-b
cut invocation
-B
Which files are listed
-b
Formatting the file names
-b
dircolors invocation
-b
cp invocation
-b
install invocation
-b
mv invocation
-b
ln invocation
-B
df invocation
-B
du invocation
-b
du invocation
-b
File type tests
-b
who invocation
-b
pinky invocation
-c
od invocation
-c
fmt invocation
-c
pr invocation
-c
fold invocation
-c
head invocation
-c
tail invocation
-C
split invocation
-c
wc invocation
-c
cksum common options
-c
sort invocation
-C
sort invocation
-c
uniq invocation
-c
cut invocation
-c
tr invocation
-C
tr invocation
-c
Sorting the output
-C
General output formatting
-c
dircolors invocation
-C
install invocation
-c
install invocation
-c
chown invocation
-c
chgrp invocation
-c
chmod invocation
-c
touch invocation
-c
du invocation
-c
stat invocation
-c
truncate invocation
-c
File type tests
-c
runcon invocation
-C
env invocation
-column
pr invocation
-d
nl invocation
-d
od invocation
-d
base64 invocation
-d
pr invocation
-D
pr invocation
-d
split invocation
-d
sort invocation
-d
uniq invocation
-D
uniq invocation
-d
cut invocation
-d
paste invocation
-d
tr invocation
-d
Which files are listed
-D
What information is listed
-d
cp invocation
-D
install invocation
-d
install invocation
-d
rm invocation
-d
ln invocation
-d
touch invocation
-D
du invocation
-d
du invocation
-d
sync invocation
-d
File type tests
-d
mktemp invocation
-d
who invocation
-d
Options for date
-d
numfmt invocation
-e
cat invocation
-E
cat invocation
-e
pr invocation
-e
split invocation
-e
shuf invocation
-e
General options in join
-e
readlink invocation
-e
echo invocation
-E
echo invocation
-e
File characteristic tests
-E
realpath invocation
-e
realpath invocation
-e
stdbuf invocation
-ef
File characteristic tests
-eq
Numeric tests
-f
nl invocation
-f
od invocation
-f
pr invocation
-F
pr invocation
-f
tail invocation
-F
tail invocation
-f
csplit invocation
-f
sort invocation
-f
uniq invocation
-f
Charset selection in ptx
-F
Output formatting in ptx
-f
cut invocation
-f
Sorting the output
-F
General output formatting
-f
cp invocation
-f
mv invocation
-f
rm invocation
-f
shred invocation
-F
ln invocation
-f
ln invocation
-f
readlink invocation
-f
chown invocation
-f
chgrp invocation
-f
chmod invocation
-f
touch invocation
-f
stat invocation
-f
sync invocation
-f
File type tests
-F
stty invocation
-f
pinky invocation
-f
Options for date
-f
timeout invocation
-f
seq invocation
-g
fmt invocation
-g
sort invocation
-G
General options in ptx
-g
Output formatting in ptx
-g
What information is listed
-G
What information is listed
-g
install invocation
-g
Access permission tests
-G
Access permission tests
-g
stty invocation
-g
id invocation
-G
id invocation
-ge
Numeric tests
-gt
Numeric tests
-h
Block size
-H
Traversing symlinks
-h
nl invocation
-h
pr invocation
-h
sort invocation
-H
Which files are listed
-h
What information is listed
-H
cp invocation
-h
chown invocation
-H
chown invocation
-h
chgrp invocation
-H
chgrp invocation
-h
chmod invocation
-H
chmod invocation
-h
touch invocation
-h
df invocation
-H
df invocation
-H
du invocation
-h
du invocation
-h
File type tests
-H
who invocation
-h
pinky invocation
-h
chcon invocation
-H
chcon invocation
-h
factor invocation
-i
nl invocation
-i
od invocation
-i
base64 invocation
-i
pr invocation
-i
sort invocation
-i
shuf invocation
-i
uniq invocation
-i
Input processing in ptx
-i
General options in join
-i
expand invocation
-I
Which files are listed
-i
What information is listed
-i
cp invocation
-i
mv invocation
-i
rm invocation
-I
rm invocation
-i
ln invocation
-i
df invocation
-i
tee invocation
-i
pinky invocation
-I
Options for date
-i
uname invocation
-i
env invocation
-i
stdbuf invocation
-j
od invocation
-J
pr invocation
-j
General options in join
-k
Block size
-k
csplit invocation
-k
sort invocation
-k
General output formatting
-k
df invocation
-k
du invocation
-k
Access permission tests
-k
timeout invocation
-L
Traversing symlinks
-l
nl invocation
-l
od invocation
-l
pr invocation
-l
split invocation
-l
wc invocation
-L
wc invocation
-l
cksum general options
-l
b2sum invocation
-L
Which files are listed
-l
What information is listed
-L
cp invocation
-l
cp invocation
-L
ln invocation
-L
chown invocation
-L
chgrp invocation
-L
chmod invocation
-l
df invocation
-L
du invocation
-l
du invocation
-L
stat invocation
-L
File type tests
-L
realpath invocation
-L
pwd invocation
-l
who invocation
-l
pinky invocation
-L
chcon invocation
-l
chcon invocation
-l
runcon invocation
-le
Numeric tests
-lt
Numeric tests
-m
pr invocation
-m
wc invocation
-m
sort invocation
-M
sort invocation
-M
Output formatting in ptx
-m
General output formatting
-m
install invocation
-m
mkdir invocation
-m
mkfifo invocation
-m
mknod invocation
-m
readlink invocation
-m
touch invocation
-m
du invocation
-m
realpath invocation
-m
who invocation
-m
uname invocation
-n
cat invocation
-n
nl invocation
-N
od invocation
-n
pr invocation
-N
pr invocation
-n
head invocation
-n
tail invocation
-n
split invocation
-n
csplit invocation
-n
sort invocation
-n
shuf invocation
-n
cut invocation
-n
What information is listed
-N
Formatting the file names
-n
cp invocation
-n
mv invocation
-n
shred invocation
-n
ln invocation
-n
readlink invocation
-n
echo invocation
-N
File characteristic tests
-n
String tests
-n
id invocation
-n
uname invocation
-n
nice invocation
-ne
Numeric tests
-nt
File characteristic tests
-o
od invocation
-o
pr invocation
-o
sort invocation
-o
shuf invocation
-o
Input processing in ptx
-O
Output formatting in ptx
-o
General options in join
-o
What information is listed
-o
install invocation
-o
truncate invocation
-O
Access permission tests
-o
Connectives for test
-o
uname invocation
-o
stdbuf invocation
-ot
File characteristic tests
-P
Traversing symlinks
-p
nl invocation
-p
fmt invocation
-p
General output formatting
-p
dircolors invocation
-P
cp invocation
-p
cp invocation
-p
install invocation
-P
ln invocation
-p
mkdir invocation
-p
rmdir invocation
-P
chown invocation
-P
chgrp invocation
-P
chmod invocation
-P
df invocation
-P
du invocation
-p
File type tests
-p
tee invocation
-p
pathchk invocation
-P
pathchk invocation
-p
mktemp invocation
-P
realpath invocation
-P
pwd invocation
-p
who invocation
-p
pinky invocation
-p
uname invocation
-P
chcon invocation
-p
timeout invocation
-q
head invocation
-q
tail invocation
-q
csplit invocation
-q
Formatting the file names
-Q
Formatting the file names
-q
readlink invocation
-q
mktemp invocation
-q
realpath invocation
-q
who invocation
-q
pinky invocation
-r
tac invocation
-r
pr invocation
-r
sum invocation
-r
sort invocation
-R
sort invocation
-r
shuf invocation
-r
Input processing in ptx
-R
Output formatting in ptx
-R
Which files are listed
-r
Sorting the output
-r
cp invocation
-R
cp invocation
-r
rm invocation
-R
rm invocation
-r
ln invocation
-R
chown invocation
-R
chgrp invocation
-R
chmod invocation
-r
touch invocation
-r
truncate invocation
-r
Access permission tests
-r
id invocation
-r
who invocation
-r
Options for date
-R
Options for date
-r
uname invocation
-R
chcon invocation
-r
chcon invocation
-r
runcon invocation
-S
Backup options
-s
cat invocation
-s
tac invocation
-s
nl invocation
-S
od invocation
-s
od invocation
-s
fmt invocation
-s
pr invocation
-S
pr invocation
-s
fold invocation
-s
tail invocation
-s
csplit invocation
-s
sum invocation
-s
sort invocation
-S
sort invocation
-s
uniq invocation
-S
Input processing in ptx
-s
cut invocation
-s
paste invocation
-s
tr invocation
-s
What information is listed
-S
Sorting the output
-s
cp invocation
-S
cp invocation
-s
install invocation
-S
install invocation
-S
mv invocation
-s
shred invocation
-s
ln invocation
-S
ln invocation
-s
readlink invocation
-S
du invocation
-s
du invocation
-s
truncate invocation
-S
File type tests
-s
File characteristic tests
-s
basename invocation
-s
realpath invocation
-s
tty invocation
-s
who invocation
-s
pinky invocation
-s
Options for date
-s
uname invocation
-S
env invocation
-s
timeout invocation
-s
seq invocation
-S, env and single quotes
env invocation
-t
cat invocation
-T
cat invocation
-t
od invocation
-t
fmt invocation
-t
pr invocation
-T
pr invocation
-t
split invocation
-t
cksum common options
-t
sort invocation
-T
sort invocation
-t
Output formatting in ptx
-T
Output formatting in ptx
-t
General options in join
-t
tr invocation
-t
expand invocation
-t
unexpand invocation
-t
Sorting the output
-T
General output formatting
-t
cp invocation
-T
cp invocation
-t
install invocation
-T
install invocation
-t
mv invocation
-T
mv invocation
-t
ln invocation
-T
ln invocation
-t
touch invocation
-t
df invocation
-T
df invocation
-t
du invocation
-t
stat invocation
-t
File type tests
-t
mktemp invocation
-t
who invocation
-T
who invocation
-t
chcon invocation
-t
runcon invocation
-u
cat invocation
-u
fmt invocation
-u
split invocation
-u
sort invocation
-u
uniq invocation
-u
Sorting the output
-U
Sorting the output
-u
cp invocation
-u
mv invocation
-u
shred invocation
-u
Access permission tests
-u
mktemp invocation
-u
id invocation
-u
who invocation
-u
Options for date
-u
chcon invocation
-u
runcon invocation
-u
env invocation
-v
cat invocation
-v
nl invocation
-v
od invocation
-v
pr invocation
-v
head invocation
-v
tail invocation
-V
sort invocation
-v
General options in join
-v
Sorting the output
-v
cp invocation
-v
install invocation
-v
mv invocation
-v
rm invocation
-v
shred invocation
-v
ln invocation
-v
mkdir invocation
-v
readlink invocation
-v
rmdir invocation
-v
chown invocation
-v
chgrp invocation
-v
chmod invocation
-v
df invocation
-v
uname invocation
-v
chcon invocation
-v
env invocation
-v
timeout invocation
-w
nl invocation
-w
od invocation
-w
base64 invocation
-w
fmt invocation
-w
pr invocation
-W
pr invocation
-w
fold invocation
-w
wc invocation
-w
cksum common options
-w
uniq invocation
-W
Input processing in ptx
-w
Output formatting in ptx
-w
General output formatting
-w
Access permission tests
-w
who invocation
-w
pinky invocation
-w
seq invocation
-width
fmt invocation
-x
od invocation
-x
split invocation
-X
Sorting the output
-x
General output formatting
-x
cp invocation
-x
shred invocation
-x
df invocation
-X
du invocation
-x
du invocation
-x
Access permission tests
-z
head invocation
-z
tail invocation
-z
csplit invocation
-z
cksum common options
-z
sort invocation
-z
shuf invocation
-z
uniq invocation
-z
comm invocation
-z
cut invocation
-z
paste invocation
-z
General options in join
-Z
What information is listed
-Z
cp invocation
-Z
install invocation
-Z
mv invocation
-z
shred invocation
-Z
mkdir invocation
-Z
mkfifo invocation
-Z
mknod invocation
-z
readlink invocation
-z
String tests
-z
basename invocation
-z
dirname invocation
-z
realpath invocation
-Z
id invocation
-z
id invocation
-z
numfmt invocation
!
!
Connectives for test
!=
String tests
[
[
test invocation
*
*
Numeric expressions
/
/
Numeric expressions
</th>
? regexp operator
String expressions
( regexp operator
String expressions
+ regexp operator
String expressions
| regexp operator
String expressions
/code>
printf invocation
<var class=“var”>ooo
printf invocation
printf invocation
printf invocation
hh
printf invocation
&
&
Relations for expr
%
%
Numeric expressions
%b
printf invocation
%q
printf invocation
+
+
String expressions
+
Numeric expressions
+page_range
pr invocation
<
<
Relations for expr
<
String tests
<=
Relations for expr
=
=
Relations for expr
=
String tests
==
Relations for expr
==
String tests
>
>
Relations for expr
>
String tests
>=
Relations for expr
|
|
Relations for expr
1
128-bit checksum
md5sum invocation
16-bit checksum
sum invocation
160-bit checksum
sha1sum invocation
2
224-bit checksum
sha2 utilities
256-bit checksum
sha2 utilities
3
32-bit checksum
cksum invocation
384-bit checksum
sha2 utilities
5
512-bit checksum
b2sum invocation
512-bit checksum
sha2 utilities
A
abbreviations for months
Calendar date items
access control lists (ACLs)
cp invocation
access control lists (ACLs)
cp invocation
access permission tests
Access permission tests
access permissions, changing
chmod invocation
access time, changing
touch invocation
access timestamp
dd invocation
access timestamp, printing or sorting files by
Sorting the output
access timestamp, show the most recent
du invocation
across columns
pr invocation
across, listing files
General output formatting
adding permissions
Setting Permissions
addition
Numeric expressions
ago in date strings
Relative items in date strings
all lines, grouping
uniq invocation
all repeated lines, outputting
uniq invocation
alnum
Character arrays
alpha
Character arrays
alternate ebcdic, converting to
dd invocation
always classify option
General output formatting
always color option
General output formatting
always hyperlink option
General output formatting
always interactive option
rm invocation
always total option
wc invocation
am i
who invocation
am in date strings
Time of day items
and operator
Connectives for test
and operator
Relations for expr
append
dd invocation
appending to the output file
dd invocation
appropriate privileges
install invocation
appropriate privileges
Setting the time
appropriate privileges
hostname invocation
appropriate privileges
nice invocation
arbitrary date strings, debugging
Options for date
arbitrary date strings, parsing
Options for date
arbitrary text, displaying
echo invocation
arch
arch invocation
arithmetic tests
Numeric tests
arrays of characters in tr
Character arrays
ASCII dump of files
od invocation
ascii, converting to
dd invocation
atime
File timestamps
atime, changing
touch invocation
atime, printing or sorting files by
Sorting the output
atime, show the most recent
du invocation
attribute caching
stat invocation
attributes, file
Changing file attributes
authors of parse_datetime
Authors of parse_datetime
auto classify option
General output formatting
auto color option
General output formatting
auto hyperlink option
General output formatting
auto total option
wc invocation
B
b for block special file
mknod invocation
b2sum
b2sum invocation
background jobs, stopping at terminal write
Local
backslash escapes
Character arrays
backslash escapes
echo invocation
backslash escapes
echo invocation
backslash sequences for file names
Formatting the file names
backup files, ignoring
Which files are listed
backup options
Backup options
backup suffix
Backup options
backups, making
Backup options
backups, making
cp invocation
backups, making
install invocation
backups, making
mv invocation
backups, making
ln invocation
backups, making only
cp invocation
base32
base32 invocation
base32 encoding
base32 invocation
base32 encoding
basenc invocation
base64
base64 invocation
base64 checksum encoding
cksum general options
Base64 decoding
base64 invocation
base64 encoding
base64 invocation
basename
basename invocation
basenc
basenc invocation
baud rate, setting
Special
beeping at input buffer full
Input
beginning of time
Time conversion specifiers
beginning of time, for POSIX
Seconds since the Epoch
Bellovin, Steven M.
Authors of parse_datetime
Berets, Jim
Authors of parse_datetime
Berry, K.
Introduction
Berry, K.
Authors of parse_datetime
binary
dd invocation
binary I/O
dd invocation
binary input files
cksum common options
bind mount
rm invocation
bind mount
stat invocation
birth time, printing or sorting files by
Sorting the output
birthtime
File timestamps
BLAKE2
b2sum invocation
BLAKE2 hash length
cksum general options
BLAKE2 hash length
b2sum invocation
blank
Character arrays
blank lines, numbering
nl invocation
blanks, ignoring leading
sort invocation
block (space-padding)
dd invocation
block size
Block size
block size
dd invocation
block size of conversion
dd invocation
block size of input
dd invocation
block size of output
dd invocation
block special check
File type tests
block special files
mknod invocation
block special files, creating
mknod invocation
BLOCK_SIZE
Block size
BLOCKSIZE
Block size
body, numbering
nl invocation
Bourne shell syntax for color setup
dircolors invocation
breaks, cause interrupts
Input
breaks, ignoring
Input
brkint
Input
bs
dd invocation
BSD output
cksum common options
BSD sum
sum invocation
BSD tail
tail invocation
BSD touch compatibility
touch invocation
bsn
Output
btrfs file system type
df invocation
bugs, reporting
Introduction
built-in shell commands, conflicts with
mknod invocation
built-in shell commands, conflicts with
stat invocation
built-in shell commands, conflicts with
echo invocation
built-in shell commands, conflicts with
printf invocation
built-in shell commands, conflicts with
test invocation
built-in shell commands, conflicts with
pwd invocation
built-in shell commands, conflicts with
nice invocation
built-in shell commands, conflicts with
kill invocation
built-in shell commands, conflicts with
sleep invocation
byte count
wc invocation
byte-swapping
od invocation
byte-swapping
dd invocation
C
c for character special file
mknod invocation
C shell syntax for color setup
dircolors invocation
C-s/C-q flow control
Input
calendar
Calendars
calendar date item
Calendar date items
calendar, in dates
General date syntax
calendar, in dates
General date syntax
calendars, non-Gregorian
Calendars
calling combined multi-call program
Multi-call invocation
canonical file name
readlink invocation
canonical file name
realpath invocation
canonicalize a file name
readlink invocation
canonicalize a file name
realpath invocation
case folding
sort invocation
case translation
Local
case, ignored in dates
General date syntax
cat
cat invocation
cbreak
Combination
cbs
dd invocation
CD-ROM file system type
df invocation
cdfs file system type
df invocation
cdtrdsr
Control
change or print terminal settings
stty invocation
change SELinux context
chcon invocation
changed files, verbosely describing
chgrp invocation
changed owners, verbosely describing
chown invocation
changing access permissions
chmod invocation
changing file attributes
Changing file attributes
changing file ownership
chown invocation
changing file timestamps
touch invocation
changing group ownership
chown invocation
changing group ownership
chgrp invocation
changing security context
chcon invocation
changing special mode bits
Changing Special Mode Bits
character classes
Character arrays
character count
wc invocation
character size
Control
character special check
File type tests
character special files
mknod invocation
character special files, creating
mknod invocation
characters, special
Characters
chcon
chcon invocation
check file types
test invocation
checking whether a file is sorted
sort invocation
checking whether a file is sorted
sort invocation
checksum, 128-bit
md5sum invocation
checksum, 16-bit
sum invocation
checksum, 160-bit
sha1sum invocation
checksum, 224-bit
sha2 utilities
checksum, 256-bit
sha2 utilities
checksum, 32-bit
cksum invocation
checksum, 384-bit
sha2 utilities
checksum, 512-bit
b2sum invocation
checksum, 512-bit
sha2 utilities
chgrp
chgrp invocation
chmod
chmod invocation
chown
chown invocation
chroot
chroot invocation
cio
dd invocation
cksum
cksum invocation
clocal
Control
clock skew
Formatting file timestamps
clock skew
File timestamps
clone
cp invocation
cmspar
Control
cntrl
Character arrays
color database, printing
dircolors invocation
color setup
dircolors invocation
color, distinguishing file types with
General output formatting
cols
Special
column to wrap data after
base64 invocation
COLUMNS
General output formatting
COLUMNS
Special
columns
Special
combination settings
Combination
combined
Multi-call invocation
combined date and time of day item
Combined date and time of day items
comm
comm invocation
command-line operands to shuffle
shuf invocation
commands for controlling processes
Process control
commands for delaying
Delaying
commands for exit status
Conditions
commands for file name manipulation
File name manipulation
commands for invoking other commands
Modified command invocation
commands for printing text
Printing text
commands for printing the working context
Working context
commands for printing user information
User information
commands for redirection
Redirection
commands for SELinux context
SELinux context
commands for system context
System context
commas, outputting between files
General output formatting
comments, in dates
General date syntax
common field, joining on
join invocation
common lines
comm invocation
common options
Common options
compare values
test invocation
comparing sorted files
comm invocation
comparison operators
Relations for expr
compression and du
du invocation
concatenate and write files
cat invocation
concurrent I/O
dd invocation
conditional executability
Conditional Executability
conditions
Conditions
conflicts with shell built-ins
mknod invocation
conflicts with shell built-ins
stat invocation
conflicts with shell built-ins
echo invocation
conflicts with shell built-ins
printf invocation
conflicts with shell built-ins
test invocation
conflicts with shell built-ins
pwd invocation
conflicts with shell built-ins
nice invocation
conflicts with shell built-ins
kill invocation
conflicts with shell built-ins
sleep invocation
connectives, logical
Connectives for test
connectives, logical
Relations for expr
constant parity
Control
context splitting
csplit invocation
context, system
System context
control characters, using ‘^c’
Local
control settings
Control
controlling terminal
dd invocation
conv
dd invocation
conversion block size
dd invocation
conversion specifiers, date
Date conversion specifiers
conversion specifiers, literal
Literal conversion specifiers
conversion specifiers, time
Time conversion specifiers
converting tabs to spaces
expand invocation
converting while copying a file
dd invocation
cooked
Combination
Coordinated Universal Time
Options for date
copy on write
cp invocation
copy-on-write and du
du invocation
copying directories recursively
cp invocation
copying directories recursively
cp invocation
copying existing permissions
Copying Permissions
copying files
cat invocation
copying files and directories
cp invocation
copying files and setting attributes
install invocation
core utilities
Top
count
dd invocation
COW
cp invocation
cp
cp invocation
crashes and corruption
sync invocation
CRC checksum
cksum invocation
cread
Control
creating directories
mkdir invocation
creating FIFOs (named pipes)
mkfifo invocation
creating links (hard only)
link invocation
creating links (hard or soft)
ln invocation
creating output file, avoiding
dd invocation
creating output file, requiring
dd invocation
creation timestamp, printing or sorting files by
Sorting the output
crn
Output
crown margin
fmt invocation
crt
Combination
crterase
Local
crtkill
Local
crtscts
Control
csh syntax for color setup
dircolors invocation
csn
Control
csplit
csplit invocation
cstopb
Control
ctime
File timestamps
ctime, printing or sorting by
Sorting the output
ctime, show the most recent
du invocation
ctlecho
Local
current working directory, printing
pwd invocation
cut
cut invocation
cyclic redundancy check
cksum invocation
D
data modification time, printing or sorting files by
Sorting the output
data, erasing
shred invocation
database for color setup, printing
dircolors invocation
date
date invocation
date and time of day format, ISO 8601
Combined date and time of day items
date conversion specifiers
Date conversion specifiers
date format, ISO 8601
Calendar date items
date input formats
Date input formats
date options
Options for date
date strings, debugging
Options for date
date strings, parsing
Options for date
day in date strings
Relative items in date strings
day in date strings
Relative items in date strings
day of week item
Day of week items
dd
dd invocation
ddrescue
dd invocation
debugging date strings
Options for date
debugging, copying
cp invocation
debugging, copying
install invocation
debugging, copying
mv invocation
debugging, env -S
env invocation
dec
Combination
decctlq
Combination
Decode base64 data
base64 invocation
delay for a specified time
sleep invocation
delaying commands
Delaying
deleting characters
Squeezing and deleting
dereferencing symbolic links
ln invocation
descriptor follow option
tail invocation
destination directory
Target directory
destination directory
Target directory
destination directory
cp invocation
destination directory
cp invocation
destination directory
install invocation
destination directory
install invocation
destination directory
mv invocation
destination directory
mv invocation
destination directory
ln invocation
destination directory
ln invocation
destinations, multiple output
tee invocation
device file
df invocation
df
df invocation
DF_BLOCK_SIZE
Block size
diagnostic
chcon invocation
dictionary order
sort invocation
differing lines
comm invocation
digest
cksum invocation
digest algorithm
cksum general options
digit
Character arrays
dir
dir invocation
dircolors
dircolors invocation
direct
dd invocation
direct I/O
dd invocation
directories, copying
cp invocation
directories, copying recursively
cp invocation
directories, copying recursively
cp invocation
directories, creating
mkdir invocation
directories, creating with given attributes
install invocation
directories, removing
rm invocation
directories, removing (recursively)
rm invocation
directories, removing empty
rmdir invocation
directory
dd invocation
directory check
File type tests
directory components, printing
dirname invocation
directory deletion, ignoring failures
rmdir invocation
directory deletion, reporting
rmdir invocation
directory I/O
dd invocation
directory listing
ls invocation
directory listing, brief
dir invocation
directory listing, recursive
Which files are listed
directory listing, verbose
vdir invocation
directory order, listing by
Sorting the output
directory, creating temporary
mktemp invocation
directory, stripping from file names
basename invocation
dired Emacs mode support
What information is listed
dirname
dirname invocation
disabling special characters
Characters
disambiguating group names and IDs
Disambiguating names and IDs
discard
Characters
discarding file cache
dd invocation
disk device file
df invocation
disk usage
File space usage
disk usage by file system
df invocation
disk usage for files
du invocation
displacement of dates
Relative items in date strings
displaying text
echo invocation
displaying value of a symbolic link
readlink invocation
division
Numeric expressions
do nothing, successfully
true invocation
do nothing, unsuccessfully
false invocation
DOS file system
df invocation
double spacing
pr invocation
down columns
pr invocation
drain
Special
dsusp
Characters
dsync
dd invocation
DTR/DSR flow control
Control
du
du invocation
DU_BLOCK_SIZE
Block size
DVD file system type
df invocation
E
ebcdic, converting to
dd invocation
echo
echo invocation
echo
Local
echoctl
Local
echoe
Local
echok
Local
echoke
Local
echonl
Local
echoprt
Local
effective user and group IDs, printing
id invocation
effective user name, printing
whoami invocation
Eggert, Paul
Authors of parse_datetime
eight-bit characters
Control
eight-bit characters
Combination
eight-bit input
Input
ek
Combination
empty files, creating
touch invocation
empty lines, numbering
nl invocation
endianness
od invocation
entire files, output of
Output of entire files
env
env invocation
env -S, and single quotes
env invocation
env -S, debugging
env invocation
env in scripts
env invocation
environment variables, printing
printenv invocation
environment, printing
env invocation
environment, running a program in a modified
env invocation
eof
Characters
eol
Characters
eol2
Characters
Epoch, for POSIX
Seconds since the Epoch
Epoch, seconds since
Time conversion specifiers
equal string check
String tests
equal string check
String tests
equivalence classes
Character arrays
erase
Characters
erasing data
shred invocation
error messages, omitting
chown invocation
error messages, omitting
chgrp invocation
error messages, omitting
chmod invocation
evaluation of expressions
expr invocation
even parity
Control
evenp
Combination
exabyte, definition of
Block size
examples of date
Examples of date
examples of expr
Examples of expr
exbibyte, definition of
Block size
excl
dd invocation
excluding files from du
du invocation
excluding files from du
du invocation
executable file check
Access permission tests
executables and file type, marking
General output formatting
execute/search permission
Mode Structure
execute/search permission, symbolic
Setting Permissions
existence-of-file check
File characteristic tests
existing backup method
Backup options
exit status commands
Conditions
exit status of chroot
chroot invocation
exit status of env
env invocation
exit status of expr
expr invocation
exit status of false
false invocation
exit status of ls
ls invocation
exit status of mktemp
mktemp invocation
exit status of nice
nice invocation
exit status of nohup
nohup invocation
exit status of pathchk
pathchk invocation
exit status of printenv
printenv invocation
exit status of realpath
realpath invocation
exit status of runcon
runcon invocation
exit status of sort
sort invocation
exit status of stdbuf
stdbuf invocation
exit status of test
test invocation
exit status of timeout
timeout invocation
exit status of true
true invocation
exit status of tty
tty invocation
expand
expand invocation
expr
expr invocation
expression evaluation
test invocation
expression evaluation
expr invocation
expressions, numeric
Numeric expressions
expressions, string
String expressions
ext2 file system type
df invocation
ext3 file system type
df invocation
ext4 file system type
df invocation
extended attributes, xattr
install invocation
extended attributes, xattr
mv invocation
extension, sorting files by
Sorting the output
extproc
Local
F
factor
factor invocation
failure exit status
false invocation
false
false invocation
fat file system file
df invocation
fdatasync
dd invocation
ffn
Output
field separator character
sort invocation
fields, padding numeric
Padding and other flags
FIFOs, creating
mkfifo invocation
file attributes, changing
Changing file attributes
file characteristic tests
File characteristic tests
file contents, dumping unambiguously
od invocation
file information, preserving
cp invocation
file information, preserving, extended attributes, xattr
cp invocation
file mode bits, numeric
Numeric Modes
file name manipulation
File name manipulation
file names, canonicalization
realpath invocation
file names, checking validity and portability
pathchk invocation
file names, creating temporary
mktemp invocation
file names, stripping directory and suffix
basename invocation
file offset radix
od invocation
file ownership, changing
chown invocation
file sizes
What information is listed
file sizes
du invocation
File space usage
File space usage
file space usage
du invocation
file status
stat invocation
file system allocation
What information is listed
file system sizes
df invocation
file system space, retrieving current data more slowly
df invocation
file system space, retrieving old data more quickly
df invocation
file system status
stat invocation
file system types, limiting output to certain
df invocation
file system types, limiting output to certain
df invocation
file system types, printing
df invocation
file system usage
df invocation
file systems
stat invocation
file systems and hard links
ln invocation
file systems, omitting copying to different
cp invocation
file timestamp resolution
File timestamps
file timestamps, changing
touch invocation
file type and executables, marking
General output formatting
file type tests
File type tests
file type, marking
General output formatting
file type, marking
General output formatting
file types
Special file types
file types, special
Special file types
file utilities
Top
files beginning with ‘-’, removing
rm invocation
files, copying
cp invocation
files, creating
truncate invocation
fingerprint, 128-bit
md5sum invocation
fingerprint, 160-bit
sha1sum invocation
fingerprint, 224-bit
sha2 utilities
fingerprint, 256-bit
sha2 utilities
fingerprint, 384-bit
sha2 utilities
fingerprint, 512-bit
b2sum invocation
fingerprint, 512-bit
sha2 utilities
first in date strings
General date syntax
first part of files, outputting
head invocation
fixed-length records, converting to variable-length
dd invocation
floating point
Floating point
flow control, hardware
Control
flow control, hardware
Control
flow control, software
Input
flush
Characters
flushing, disabling
Local
flusho
Local
fmt
fmt invocation
fold
fold invocation
folding long input lines
fold invocation
footers, numbering
nl invocation
force deletion
shred invocation
formatting file contents
Formatting file contents
formatting of numbers in seq
seq invocation
formatting times
pr invocation
formatting times
Date format specifiers
fortnight in date strings
Relative items in date strings
fsync
dd invocation
fullblock
dd invocation
G
general date syntax
General date syntax
general numeric sort
sort invocation
gibibyte, definition of
Block size
gigabyte, definition of
Block size
giving away permissions
Umask and Protection
GMT
Options for date
grand total of file system size, usage and available space
df invocation
grand total of file system space
du invocation
graph
Character arrays
greater-than string check
String tests
Greenwich Mean Time
Options for date
group IDs, disambiguating
Disambiguating names and IDs
group names, disambiguating
Disambiguating names and IDs
group owner, default
Mode Structure
group ownership of installed files, setting
install invocation
group ownership, changing
chown invocation
group ownership, changing
chgrp invocation
group, permissions for
Setting Permissions
groups
groups invocation
growing files
tail invocation
H
hangups, immunity to
nohup invocation
hard link check
File characteristic tests
hard link, defined
ln invocation
hard links
dd invocation
hard links to directories
ln invocation
hard links to symbolic links
ln invocation
hard links, counting in du
du invocation
hard links, creating
link invocation
hard links, creating
ln invocation
hard links, preserving
cp invocation
hardware acceleration
Hardware Acceleration
hardware class
uname invocation
hardware flow control
Control
hardware flow control
Control
hardware platform
uname invocation
hardware type
uname invocation
hat notation for control characters
Local
head
head invocation
head of output
shuf invocation
headers, numbering
nl invocation
help, online
Common options
hex dump of files
od invocation
holes, copying files with
cp invocation
holes, creating files with
truncate invocation
horizontal, listing files
General output formatting
host processor type
uname invocation
hostid
hostid invocation
hostname
hostname invocation
hostname
uname invocation
hour in date strings
Relative items in date strings
human numeric sort
sort invocation
human-readable output
Block size
human-readable output
What information is listed
human-readable output
df invocation
human-readable output
du invocation
hup[cl]
Control
hurd, author, printing
What information is listed
hyperlink, linking to files
General output formatting
I
ibs
dd invocation
icanon
Local
icrnl
Input
id
id invocation
idle time
who invocation
IEEE floating point
Floating point
iexten
Local
if
dd invocation
iflag
dd invocation
ignbrk
Input
igncr
Input
ignore file systems
df invocation
Ignore garbage in base64 stream
base64 invocation
ignoring case
sort invocation
ignpar
Input
imaxbel
Input
immunity to hangups
nohup invocation
implementation, hardware
uname invocation
indenting lines
pr invocation
index
String expressions
information, about current users
who invocation
initial part of files, outputting
head invocation
initial tabs, converting
expand invocation
inlcr
Input
inode number, printing
What information is listed
inode usage
df invocation
inode usage, dereferencing in du
du invocation
inode, and hard links
ln invocation
inodes, written buffered
sync invocation
inpck
Input
input block size
dd invocation
input encoding, UTF-8
Input
input range to shuffle
shuf invocation
input settings
Input
input tabs
pr invocation
install
install invocation
intr
Characters
invocation of commands, modified
Modified command invocation
iseek
dd invocation
isig
Local
ISO 8601 date and time of day format
Combined date and time of day items
ISO 8601 date format
Calendar date items
ISO/IEC 10646
printf invocation
ISO9660 file system type
df invocation
iso9660 file system type
df invocation
ispeed
Special
istrip
Input
items in date strings
General date syntax
iterations, selecting the number of
shred invocation
iuclc
Input
iutf8
Input
ixany
Input
ixoff
Input
ixon
Input
J
join
join invocation
K
kernel name
uname invocation
kernel release
uname invocation
kernel version
uname invocation
kibibyte, definition of
Block size
kibibytes for file sizes
du invocation
kibibytes for file system sizes
df invocation
kill
kill invocation
kill
Characters
kilobyte, definition of
Block size
Knuth, Donald E.
fmt invocation
L
language, in dates
General date syntax
language, in dates
General date syntax
last day
Day of week items
last day
Options for date
last in date strings
General date syntax
last modified dates, displaying in du
du invocation
last part of files, outputting
tail invocation
LC_ALL
sort invocation
LC_ALL
ls invocation
LC_COLLATE
sort invocation
LC_COLLATE
uniq invocation
LC_COLLATE
comm invocation
LC_COLLATE
Sorting files for join
LC_COLLATE
Sorting the output
LC_COLLATE
Relations for expr
LC_CTYPE
sort invocation
LC_CTYPE
sort invocation
LC_CTYPE
sort invocation
LC_CTYPE
sort invocation
LC_CTYPE
sort invocation
LC_CTYPE
printf invocation
LC_MESSAGES
pr invocation
LC_NUMERIC
Block size
LC_NUMERIC
Floating point
LC_NUMERIC
sort invocation
LC_NUMERIC
sort invocation
LC_NUMERIC
sort invocation
LC_NUMERIC
printf invocation
LC_TIME
pr invocation
LC_TIME
sort invocation
LC_TIME
Formatting file timestamps
LC_TIME
Formatting file timestamps
LC_TIME
Formatting file timestamps
LC_TIME
du invocation
LC_TIME
date invocation
lcase
Combination
LCASE
Combination
lcase, converting to
dd invocation
lchown
chown invocation
lchown
chown invocation
lchown
chgrp invocation
lchown
chgrp invocation
leading directories, creating missing
install invocation
leading directory components, stripping
basename invocation
leap seconds
touch invocation
leap seconds
Time conversion specifiers
leap seconds
Time conversion specifiers
leap seconds
Options for date
leap seconds
Examples of date
leap seconds
General date syntax
leap seconds
Time of day items
leap seconds
Seconds since the Epoch
left margin
pr invocation
length
String expressions
less-than string check
String tests
limiting output of du
du invocation
line
Special
line buffered
stdbuf invocation
line count
wc invocation
line numbering
nl invocation
line separator character
split invocation
line settings of terminal
stty invocation
line-breaking
fmt invocation
line-by-line comparison
comm invocation
LINES
Special
link
link invocation
links, creating
link invocation
links, creating
ln invocation
Linux file system types
df invocation
literal conversion specifiers
Literal conversion specifiers
litout
Combination
ln
ln invocation
ln format for nl
nl invocation
lnext
Characters
local file system types
df invocation
local settings
Local
logging out and continuing to run
nohup invocation
logical and operator
Connectives for test
logical and operator
Relations for expr
logical connectives
Connectives for test
logical connectives
Relations for expr
logical or operator
Connectives for test
logical or operator
Relations for expr
logical pages, numbering on
nl invocation
login name, printing
logname invocation
login sessions, printing users with
users invocation
login time
who invocation
logname
logname invocation
long ls format
What information is listed
lower
Character arrays
lowercase, translating to output
Output
ls
ls invocation
LS_BLOCK_SIZE
Block size
LS_COLORS
General output formatting
LS_COLORS
dircolors invocation
lutimes
touch invocation
M
machine type
uname invocation
machine-readable stty output
stty invocation
MacKenzie, D.
Introduction
MacKenzie, David
Authors of parse_datetime
Makefiles, installing programs in
install invocation
manipulating files
Basic operations
manipulation of file names
File name manipulation
mark parity
Control
match
String expressions
matching patterns
String expressions
MD5
md5sum invocation
md5sum
md5sum invocation
mebibyte, definition of
Block size
mebibytes for file sizes
du invocation
megabyte, definition of
Block size
merging files
paste invocation
merging files in parallel
pr invocation
merging sorted files
sort invocation
message status
who invocation
message-digest, 128-bit
md5sum invocation
message-digest, 160-bit
sha1sum invocation
message-digest, 224-bit
sha2 utilities
message-digest, 256-bit
sha2 utilities
message-digest, 384-bit
sha2 utilities
message-digest, 512-bit
b2sum invocation
message-digest, 512-bit
sha2 utilities
Meyering, J.
Introduction
Meyering, Jim
Authors of parse_datetime
midnight in date strings
Time of day items
min
Special
minute in date strings
Relative items in date strings
minutes, time zone correction by
Time of day items
mkdir
mkdir invocation
mkfifo
mkfifo invocation
mknod
mknod invocation
mktemp
mktemp invocation
modem control
Control
modes and umask
Umask and Protection
modes of created directories, setting
mkdir invocation
modes of created FIFOs, setting
mkfifo invocation
modification timestamp, sorting files by
Sorting the output
modified command invocation
Modified command invocation
modified environment, running a program in a
env invocation
modify time, changing
touch invocation
month in date strings
Relative items in date strings
month names in date strings
Calendar date items
months, sorting by
sort invocation
months, written-out
General date syntax
MS-DOS file system
df invocation
MS-Windows file system
df invocation
mtime
File timestamps
mtime-greater-atime file check
File characteristic tests
mtime, changing
touch invocation
mtime, printing or sorting files by
Sorting the output
multicall
Multi-call invocation
multicolumn output, generating
pr invocation
multiple changes to permissions
Multiple Changes
multiplication
Numeric expressions
multipliers after numbers
dd invocation
multithreaded sort
sort invocation
mv
mv invocation
N
name follow option
tail invocation
name of kernel
uname invocation
name, sorting option for ls
Sorting the output
named pipe check
File type tests
named pipes, creating
mkfifo invocation
network node name
uname invocation
networked file systems and du
du invocation
never interactive option
rm invocation
newer files, copying only
cp invocation
newer files, moving only
mv invocation
newer-than file check
File characteristic tests
newline echoing after kill
Local
newline, echoing
Local
newline, translating to crlf
Output
newline, translating to return
Input
next day
Day of week items
next day
Options for date
next in date strings
General date syntax
NFS file system type
df invocation
NFS mounts from BSD to HP-UX
What information is listed
nice
nice invocation
niceness
nice invocation
nl
nl invocation
nl
Combination
nln
Output
no dereference
chcon invocation
NO_NEW_PRIVS
runcon invocation
no-op
true invocation
noatime
dd invocation
nocache
dd invocation
nocreat
dd invocation
noctty
dd invocation
node name
uname invocation
noerror
dd invocation
noflsh
Local
nofollow
dd invocation
nohup
nohup invocation
nohup.out
nohup invocation
nohup.out
nohup invocation
nolinks
dd invocation
non-directories, copying as special files
cp invocation
non-directories, copying as special files
cp invocation
non-directory suffix, stripping
dirname invocation
nonblock
dd invocation
nonblocking I/O
dd invocation
nonblocking stty setting
Special
none backup method
Backup options
none classify option
General output formatting
none color option
General output formatting
none dd status=
dd invocation
none hyperlink option
General output formatting
none total option
wc invocation
none, sorting option for ls
Sorting the output
nonempty file check
File characteristic tests
nonprinting characters, ignoring
sort invocation
nonzero-length string check
String tests
noon in date strings
Time of day items
not-equal string check
String tests
notrunc
dd invocation
now in date strings
Relative items in date strings
noxfer dd status=
dd invocation
nproc
nproc invocation
NTFS file system
df invocation
ntfs file system file
df invocation
number of inputs to merge, nmerge
sort invocation
numbered backup method
Backup options
numbering lines
nl invocation
numbers, written-out
General date syntax
numeric expressions
Numeric expressions
numeric field padding
Padding and other flags
numeric modes
Numeric Modes
numeric operations
Numeric operations
numeric sequences
seq invocation
numeric sort
sort invocation
numeric tests
Numeric tests
numeric uid and gid
What information is listed
numeric user and group IDs
What information is listed
numfmt
numfmt invocation
O
obs
dd invocation
ocrnl
Output
octal dump of files
od invocation
octal numbers for file modes
Numeric Modes
od
od invocation
odd parity
Control
oddp
Combination
of
dd invocation
ofdel
Output
ofill
Output
oflag
dd invocation
olcuc
Output
older-than file check
File characteristic tests
once interactive option
rm invocation
one file system, restricting du to
du invocation
one file system, restricting rm to
rm invocation
one-line output format
df invocation
onlcr
Output
onlret
Output
only total option
wc invocation
onocr
Output
operating on characters
Operating on characters
operating on sorted files
Operating on sorted files
operating system name
uname invocation
opost
Output
option delimiter
Common options
options for date
Options for date
or operator
Connectives for test
or operator
Relations for expr
ordinal numbers
General date syntax
oseek
dd invocation
ospeed
Special
other permissions
Setting Permissions
output block size
dd invocation
output file name prefix
split invocation
output file name prefix
csplit invocation
output file name suffix
csplit invocation
output format
stat invocation
output format
stat invocation
output format, portable
df invocation
output NUL-byte-terminated lines
cksum common options
output NUL-byte-terminated lines
General output formatting
output NUL-byte-terminated lines
readlink invocation
output NUL-byte-terminated lines
du invocation
output NUL-byte-terminated lines
basename invocation
output NUL-byte-terminated lines
dirname invocation
output NUL-byte-terminated lines
realpath invocation
output NUL-byte-terminated lines
printenv invocation
output NUL-byte-terminated lines
env invocation
output of entire files
Output of entire files
output of parts of files
Output of parts of files
output settings
Output
output tabs
pr invocation
overwriting of input, allowed
sort invocation
overwriting of input, allowed
shuf invocation
owned by effective group ID check
Access permission tests
owned by effective user ID check
Access permission tests
owner of file, permissions for
Setting Permissions
owner, default
Mode Structure
ownership of installed files, setting
install invocation
P
p for FIFO file
mknod invocation
pad character
Output
pad instead of timing for delaying
Output
padding of numeric fields
Padding and other flags
paragraphs, reformatting
fmt invocation
parenb
Control
parent directories and cp
cp invocation
parent directories, creating
mkdir invocation
parent directories, creating missing
install invocation
parent directories, removing
rmdir invocation
parentheses for grouping
expr invocation
parity
Combination
parity errors, marking
Input
parity, ignoring
Input
parmrk
Input
parodd
Control
parse_datetime
Date input formats
parsing date strings
Options for date
parts of files, output of
Output of parts of files
pass8
Combination
paste
paste invocation
Paterson, R.
Introduction
PATH
env invocation
pathchk
pathchk invocation
pattern matching
String expressions
pebibyte, definition of
Block size
permission tests
Access permission tests
permissions of installed files, setting
install invocation
permissions, changing access
chmod invocation
permissions, copying existing
Copying Permissions
permissions, for changing file timestamps
touch invocation
permissions, output by ls
What information is listed
petabyte, definition of
Block size
phone directory order
sort invocation
pieces, splitting a file into
split invocation
Pinard, F.
Introduction
Pinard, F.
Authors of parse_datetime
pipe fitting
tee invocation
Plass, Michael F.
fmt invocation
platform, hardware
uname invocation
pm in date strings
Time of day items
portable file names, checking for
pathchk invocation
portable output format
df invocation
POSIX
Introduction
POSIX output format
df invocation
POSIXLY_CORRECT
Common options
POSIXLY_CORRECT
Standards conformance
POSIXLY_CORRECT
pr invocation
POSIXLY_CORRECT
wc invocation
POSIXLY_CORRECT
sort invocation
POSIXLY_CORRECT
sort invocation
POSIXLY_CORRECT
dd invocation
POSIXLY_CORRECT
readlink invocation
POSIXLY_CORRECT
readlink invocation
POSIXLY_CORRECT
echo invocation
POSIXLY_CORRECT
printf invocation
POSIXLY_CORRECT
id invocation
POSIXLY_CORRECT, and block size
Block size
pr
pr invocation
prime factors
factor invocation
print
Character arrays
print machine hardware name
arch invocation
print name of current directory
pwd invocation
print system information
uname invocation
print terminal file name
tty invocation
Print the number of processors
nproc invocation
printenv
printenv invocation
printf
printf invocation
printing all or some environment variables
printenv invocation
printing color database
dircolors invocation
printing current user information
who invocation
printing current usernames
users invocation
printing groups a user is in
groups invocation
printing ls colors
dircolors invocation
printing real and effective user and group IDs
id invocation
printing text
echo invocation
printing text, commands for
Printing text
printing the current time
date invocation
printing the effective user ID
whoami invocation
printing the host identifier
hostid invocation
printing the hostname
hostname invocation
printing the system uptime and load
uptime invocation
printing user’s login name
logname invocation
printing, preparing files for
pr invocation
process zero-terminated items
head invocation
process zero-terminated items
tail invocation
process zero-terminated items
sort invocation
process zero-terminated items
shuf invocation
process zero-terminated items
uniq invocation
process zero-terminated items
comm invocation
process zero-terminated items
cut invocation
process zero-terminated items
paste invocation
process zero-terminated items
General options in join
process zero-terminated items
numfmt invocation
processes, commands for controlling
Process control
progress dd status=
dd invocation
prompting, and ln
ln invocation
prompting, and mv
mv invocation
prompting, and rm
rm invocation
prompts, forcing
mv invocation
prompts, omitting
mv invocation
prompts, omitting
mv invocation
prterase
Local
ptx
ptx invocation
punct
Character arrays
pure numbers in date strings
Pure numbers in date strings
pwd
pwd invocation
Q
quettabyte, definition of
Block size
quit
Characters
quoting style
Formatting the file names
R
radix for file offsets
od invocation
random seed
Random sources
random sort
sort invocation
random source for shredding
shred invocation
random source for shuffling
shuf invocation
random source for sorting
sort invocation
random sources
Random sources
ranges
Character arrays
raw
Combination
raw binary checksum
cksum general options
read errors, ignoring
dd invocation
read from standard input and write to standard output and files
tee invocation
read permission
Mode Structure
read permission, symbolic
Setting Permissions
read system call, and holes
cp invocation
readable file check
Access permission tests
readlink
readlink invocation
real user and group IDs, printing
id invocation
realpath
realpath invocation
realpath
realpath invocation
realpath
realpath invocation
realpath
readlink invocation
record separator character
split invocation
recursive directory listing
Which files are listed
recursively changing access permissions
chmod invocation
recursively changing file ownership
chown invocation
recursively changing group ownership
chgrp invocation
recursively copying directories
cp invocation
recursively copying directories
cp invocation
redirection
Redirection
reference file
chcon invocation
reformatting paragraph text
fmt invocation
regular expression matching
String expressions
regular file check
File type tests
relations, numeric or string
Relations for expr
relative items in date strings
Relative items in date strings
release of kernel
uname invocation
relpath
realpath invocation
remainder
Numeric expressions
remote hostname
who invocation
removing characters
Squeezing and deleting
removing empty directories
rmdir invocation
removing files after shredding
shred invocation
removing files or directories
rm invocation
removing files or directories (via the unlink syscall)
unlink invocation
removing permissions
Setting Permissions
renaming files without copying them
mv invocation
repeat output values
shuf invocation
repeated characters
Character arrays
repeated lines, outputting
uniq invocation
repeated output of a string
yes invocation
restricted deletion flag
Mode Structure
restricted security context
runcon invocation
return, ignoring
Input
return, translating to newline
Input
return, translating to newline
Output
reverse sorting
sort invocation
reverse sorting
Sorting the output
reversing files
tac invocation
rm
rm invocation
rmdir
rmdir invocation
rn format for nl
nl invocation
ronnabyte, definition of
Block size
root as default owner
install invocation
root directory, allow recursive destruction
rm invocation
root directory, allow recursive modification
chown invocation
root directory, allow recursive modification
chgrp invocation
root directory, allow recursive modification
chmod invocation
root directory, disallow recursive destruction
rm invocation
root directory, disallow recursive modification
chown invocation
root directory, disallow recursive modification
chgrp invocation
root directory, disallow recursive modification
chmod invocation
root directory, running a program in a specified
chroot invocation
rows
Special
rprnt
Characters
RTS/CTS flow control
Control
run commands with bounded time
timeout invocation
run with security context
runcon invocation
runcon
runcon invocation
running a program in a modified environment
env invocation
running a program in a specified root directory
chroot invocation
rz format for nl
nl invocation
S
Salz, Rich
Authors of parse_datetime
same file check
File characteristic tests
sane
Combination
scheduling, affecting
nice invocation
screen columns
fold invocation
scripts arguments
env invocation
seconds since the Epoch
Time conversion specifiers
section delimiters of pages
nl invocation
security context
What information is listed
security context
cp invocation
security context
install invocation
security context
install invocation
security context
mv invocation
security context
mkdir invocation
security context
mkfifo invocation
security context
mknod invocation
security context
id invocation
seek
dd invocation
self-backups
cp invocation
SELinux
What information is listed
SELinux
install invocation
SELinux
id invocation
SELinux context
SELinux context
SELinux, context
SELinux context
SELinux, restoring security context
mv invocation
SELinux, setting/restoring security context
cp invocation
SELinux, setting/restoring security context
install invocation
SELinux, setting/restoring security context
mkdir invocation
SELinux, setting/restoring security context
mkfifo invocation
SELinux, setting/restoring security context
mknod invocation
send a signal to processes
kill invocation
sentences and line-breaking
fmt invocation
separator for numbers in seq
seq invocation
seq
seq invocation
sequence of numbers
seq invocation
set-group-ID
Mode Structure
set-group-ID check
Access permission tests
set-user-ID
Mode Structure
set-user-ID check
Access permission tests
setgid
Mode Structure
setting permissions
Setting Permissions
setting the hostname
hostname invocation
setting the time
Setting the time
setuid
Mode Structure
setup for color
dircolors invocation
sh syntax for color setup
dircolors invocation
SHA-1
sha1sum invocation
SHA-2
sha2 utilities
SHA-2 hash length
cksum general options
SHA-3 hash length
cksum general options
sha1sum
sha1sum invocation
sha224sum
sha2 utilities
sha256sum
sha2 utilities
sha384sum
sha2 utilities
sha512sum
sha2 utilities
shebang arguments
env invocation
SHELL environment variable, and color
General output formatting
SHELL environment variable, and color
dircolors invocation
shell utilities
Top
shred
shred invocation
shuf
shuf invocation
shuffling files
shuf invocation
SI output
Block size
SI output
What information is listed
SI output
df invocation
SI output
du invocation
signals, specifying
Signal specifications
simple backup method
Backup options
SIMPLE_BACKUP_SUFFIX
Backup options
single quotes, and env -S
env invocation
single-column output of files
General output formatting
size
Special
size for main memory sorting
sort invocation
size of file to shred
shred invocation
size of files, reporting
What information is listed
size of files, sorting files by
Sorting the output
skip
dd invocation
sleep
sleep invocation
socket check
File type tests
software flow control
Input
sort
sort invocation
sort field
sort invocation
sort stability
sort invocation
sort stability
sort invocation
sort’s last-resort comparison
sort invocation
sort’s last-resort comparison
sort invocation
sorted files, operations on
Operating on sorted files
sorting files
sort invocation
sorting ls output
Sorting the output
space
Character arrays
space parity
Control
sparse
dd invocation
sparse files, copying
cp invocation
sparse files, creating
truncate invocation
special characters
Characters
special file types
Special file types
special file types
Special file types
special files
mknod invocation
special settings
Special
speed
Special
split
split invocation
splitting a file into pieces
split invocation
splitting a file into pieces by context
csplit invocation
squeezing blank lines
cat invocation
squeezing empty lines
cat invocation
squeezing repeat characters
Squeezing and deleting
Stallman, R.
Introduction
standard input
Common options
standard output
Common options
standard streams, buffering
stdbuf invocation
start
Characters
stat
stat invocation
status
dd invocation
status
Characters
status time, printing or sorting by
Sorting the output
status time, show the most recent
du invocation
stdbuf
stdbuf invocation
stick parity
Control
sticky
Mode Structure
sticky bit check
Access permission tests
stop
Characters
stop bits
Control
storage devices, failing
dd invocation
strftime and date
Date format specifiers
string constants, outputting
od invocation
string expressions
String expressions
string tests
String tests
strip directory and suffix from file names
basename invocation
stripping non-directory suffix
dirname invocation
stripping symbol table information
install invocation
stripping trailing slashes
cp invocation
stripping trailing slashes
mv invocation
stty
stty invocation
substr
String expressions
subtracting permissions
Setting Permissions
subtraction
Numeric expressions
successful exit
true invocation
suffix, stripping from file names
basename invocation
sum
sum invocation
summarizing files
Summarizing files
superblock, writing
sync invocation
supplementary groups, printing
groups invocation
susp
Characters
swab (byte-swapping)
dd invocation
swap space, saving text image in
Mode Structure
swtch
Characters
symbol table information, stripping
install invocation
symbol table information, stripping, program
install invocation
symbolic (soft) links, creating
ln invocation
symbolic link check
File type tests
symbolic link to directory, controlling traversal of
Traversing symlinks
symbolic link to directory, never traverse
Traversing symlinks
symbolic link to directory, never traverse
chown invocation
symbolic link to directory, never traverse
chgrp invocation
symbolic link to directory, never traverse
chmod invocation
symbolic link to directory, never traverse
chcon invocation
symbolic link to directory, traverse each that is encountered
Traversing symlinks
symbolic link to directory, traverse each that is encountered
chown invocation
symbolic link to directory, traverse each that is encountered
chgrp invocation
symbolic link to directory, traverse each that is encountered
chmod invocation
symbolic link to directory, traverse each that is encountered
chcon invocation
symbolic link to directory, traverse if on the command line
Traversing symlinks
symbolic link to directory, traverse if on the command line
chown invocation
symbolic link to directory, traverse if on the command line
chgrp invocation
symbolic link to directory, traverse if on the command line
chmod invocation
symbolic link to directory, traverse if on the command line
chcon invocation
symbolic link, defined
ln invocation
symbolic links and ln
ln invocation
symbolic links and pwd
pwd invocation
symbolic links, changing mode
chmod invocation
symbolic links, changing mode
chmod invocation
symbolic links, changing owner
chown invocation
symbolic links, changing owner
chown invocation
symbolic links, changing owner
chgrp invocation
symbolic links, changing owner
chgrp invocation
symbolic links, changing owner, group
chown invocation
symbolic links, changing owner, group
chgrp invocation
symbolic links, changing time
touch invocation
symbolic links, copying
cp invocation
symbolic links, copying
cp invocation
symbolic links, copying with
cp invocation
symbolic links, dereferencing
Which files are listed
symbolic links, dereferencing
Which files are listed
symbolic links, dereferencing
Which files are listed
symbolic links, dereferencing in du
du invocation
symbolic links, dereferencing in du
du invocation
symbolic links, dereferencing in stat
stat invocation
symbolic links, following
dd invocation
symbolic links, permissions of
chmod invocation
symbolic modes
Symbolic Modes
symlinks, resolution
realpath invocation
sync
sync invocation
sync
dd invocation
sync (padding with ASCII NULs)
dd invocation
Synchronize cached writes to persistent storage
sync invocation
synchronize file system and memory
sync invocation
synchronized data and metadata I/O
dd invocation
synchronized data and metadata writes, before finishing
dd invocation
synchronized data reads
dd invocation
synchronized data writes, before finishing
dd invocation
system context
System context
system information, printing
arch invocation
system information, printing
nproc invocation
system information, printing
uname invocation
system name, printing
hostname invocation
System V sum
sum invocation
T
tab stops, setting
expand invocation
tabn
Output
tabs
Combination
tabs to spaces, converting
expand invocation
tac
tac invocation
tagged paragraphs
fmt invocation
tail
tail invocation
tandem
Input
target directory
Target directory
target directory
Target directory
target directory
Target directory
target directory
cp invocation
target directory
cp invocation
target directory
install invocation
target directory
install invocation
target directory
mv invocation
target directory
mv invocation
target directory
ln invocation
target directory
ln invocation
tebibyte, definition of
Block size
tee
tee invocation
telephone directory order
sort invocation
temporary directory
sort invocation
temporary files and directories
mktemp invocation
terabyte, definition of
Block size
TERM
Common options
terminal check
File type tests
terminal file name, printing
tty invocation
terminal lines, currently used
who invocation
terminal settings
stty invocation
terminal, using classify iff
General output formatting
terminal, using color iff
General output formatting
terminal, using hyperlink iff
General output formatting
terse output
stat invocation
test
test invocation
text
dd invocation
text I/O
dd invocation
text image, saving in swap space
Mode Structure
text input files
cksum common options
text utilities
Top
text, displaying
echo invocation
text, reformatting
fmt invocation
this in date strings
Relative items in date strings
time
touch invocation
time
Special
time conversion specifiers
Time conversion specifiers
time formats
pr invocation
time formats
Date format specifiers
time limit
timeout invocation
time of day item
Time of day items
time setting
Setting the time
time style
Formatting file timestamps
time style
du invocation
time units
timeout invocation
time units
sleep invocation
time zone correction
Time of day items
time zone item
General date syntax
time zone item
Time zone items
TIME_STYLE
Formatting file timestamps
TIME_STYLE
du invocation
time, printing or setting
date invocation
timeout
timeout invocation
timestamps of installed files, preserving
install invocation
timestamps, changing file
touch invocation
TMPDIR
tac invocation
TMPDIR
split invocation
TMPDIR
sort invocation
TMPDIR
sort invocation
today in date strings
Relative items in date strings
tomorrow
Options for date
tomorrow in date strings
Relative items in date strings
topological sort
tsort invocation
tostop
Local
total counts
wc invocation
touch
touch invocation
tr
tr invocation
trailing slashes
Trailing slashes
translating characters
Translating
true
true invocation
truncate
truncate invocation
truncating output file, avoiding
dd invocation
truncating, file sizes
truncate invocation
tsort
tsort invocation
tty
tty invocation
two-way parity
Control
type size
od invocation
TZ
pr invocation
TZ
Formatting file timestamps
TZ
touch invocation
TZ
stat invocation
TZ
who invocation
TZ
date invocation
TZ
Options for date
TZ
Specifying time zone rules
U
u, and disabling special characters
Characters
ucase, converting to
dd invocation
umask and modes
Umask and Protection
uname
uname invocation
unblock
dd invocation
unexpand
unexpand invocation
Unicode
printf invocation
uniq
uniq invocation
unique lines, outputting
uniq invocation
uniquify files
uniq invocation
uniquifying output
sort invocation
Universal Time
Options for date
unlink
unlink invocation
unprintable characters, ignoring
sort invocation
unsorted directory listing
Sorting the output
upper
Character arrays
uppercase, translating to lowercase
Input
uptime
uptime invocation
use time, changing
touch invocation
use time, printing or sorting files by
Sorting the output
use time, printing or sorting files by
Sorting the output
use time, show the most recent
du invocation
user IDs, disambiguating
Disambiguating names and IDs
user information, commands for
User information
user name, printing
logname invocation
user names, disambiguating
Disambiguating names and IDs
usernames, printing current
users invocation
users
users invocation
UTC
Options for date
utmp
logname invocation
utmp
users invocation
utmp
who invocation
V
valid file names, checking for
pathchk invocation
variable-length records, converting to fixed-length
dd invocation
vdir
vdir invocation
verbose ls format
What information is listed
verifying checksums
cksum common options
verifying checksums
cksum common options
verifying checksums
cksum common options
verifying checksums
cksum common options
verifying checksums
cksum common options
version number sort
sort invocation
version number, finding
Common options
version of kernel
uname invocation
VERSION_CONTROL
Backup options
VERSION_CONTROL
cp invocation
VERSION_CONTROL
install invocation
VERSION_CONTROL
mv invocation
VERSION_CONTROL
ln invocation
version-control Emacs variable
Backup options
version, sorting option for ls
Sorting the output
vertical sorted files in columns
General output formatting
vtn
Output
W
wc
wc invocation
week in date strings
Relative items in date strings
werase
Characters
who
who invocation
who am i
who invocation
whoami
whoami invocation
width, sorting option for ls
Sorting the output
word count
wc invocation
working context
Working context
working directory, printing
pwd invocation
wrap data
base64 invocation
wrapping long input lines
fold invocation
writable file check
Access permission tests
write permission
Mode Structure
write permission, symbolic
Setting Permissions
write, allowed
who invocation
wtmp
users invocation
wtmp
who invocation
X
xcase
Local
xdigit
Character arrays
xfs file system type
df invocation
XON/XOFF flow control
Input
Y
year in date strings
Relative items in date strings
yes
yes invocation
yesterday
Options for date
yesterday in date strings
Relative items in date strings
yottabyte, definition of
Block size
Youmans, B.
Introduction
Z
zero-length string check
String tests
zettabyte, definition of
Block size
Jump to:  
_   -   !   [   *   /   </b>   &   %   +   <   =   >   |   1   2   3   5
  A   B   C   D   E   F   G   H   I   J   K   L   M   N   O   P   Q   R
  S   T   U   V   W   X   Y   Z  
Footnotes
(1)
If you use a non-POSIX locale (e.g., by setting LC_ALL to ‘en_US’), then
sort may produce output that is sorted differently than you’re
accustomed to. In that case, set the LC_ALL environment variable to ‘C’.
Setting only LC_COLLATE has two problems. First, it is ineffective if
LC_ALL is also set. Second, it has undefined behavior if LC_CTYPE (or
LANG, if LC_CTYPE is unset) is set to an incompatible value. For
example, you get undefined behavior if LC_CTYPE is ja_JP.PCK but
LC_COLLATE is en_US.UTF-8.
(2)
the $’ is supported in most modern shells. For older shells, use a
literal tab.
(3)
If you use a non-POSIX locale (e.g., by setting LC_ALL to ‘en_US’), then
ls may produce output that is sorted differently than you’re accustomed
to. In that case, set the LC_ALL environment variable to ‘C’.
(4)
However, some systems (e.g., FreeBSD) can be configured to allow certain
regular users to use the chroot system call, and hence to run this
program. Also, on Cygwin, anyone can run the chroot command, because the
underlying function is non-privileged due to lack of support in
MS-Windows. Furthermore, the chroot command avoids the chroot system
call when newroot is identical to the old / directory for consistency
with systems where this is allowed for non-privileged users.
